This year I am looking at how some animals that live in the water grow their eyes. I am using animals that have a problem, so their eyes are smaller than they should be when they are three days old. We know that their small eyes are not caused by lots of cells dying before they are three days old. I want to know if their eye cells are slower than normal at making more eye cells, or if they stop making new eye cells sooner.
To see how fast eye cells are being made, I am putting stuff into baby water-animals when they are between two and three days old. This stuff goes into new cells when they are made. Later in the same day, I kill the babies, so they will stop growing and I can look at their eyes up close. I can make the new cells with stuff in them turn pretty colors, so I can tell them from older cells. If the water-animals with an eye-problem make the same number of new cells as normal water-animals in the same time, then the eye-problem is not caused by cells being made slower.
To see if the water-animals with an eye-problem stop making new cells sooner, I can look at a lot of babies of different ages (between one and three days old). I can mark cells that are about to stop making new cells, and see if the eye-problem babies have more of these cells sooner than the normal babies. So if the marked cells look the same in normal and eye-problem babies when they are between one and two days old, then I know that the interesting things are happening later (when the babies are between two and three days old)
Permalink
This year I am in school learning how to become a better teacher. I spent a few years telling students about books and shorter kinds of writing and sometimes asking them to speak and write about these things. Now I spend a lot of the time reading books about what teachers who are better than me do, and also books about what learning is and how I can make it happen. I also spend several hours a day watching what a guy who has been a teacher for a long time does. Every day I also spend several hours running his class and he helps me understand what I could do better.
To say more, I am learning about different ways to make students say and think the things that I could just tell them the answers to. A lot of this is about asking good questions and then giving students the space to come up with the answers on their own. I am also learning about how I can help students read hard things well enough so that they are ready to talk about them (since I work with young people who are getting ready to go to college, it's really important for me to figure out how to get students to do this). I think that I am getting a lot better at my job and I really like what I am doing this year, although I am worried that I am spending too much money. I hope I can get a job that pays me next year so that I can eat and buy a new pair of shoes.
Permalink
Things get put up further than the sky and go round and round the place where we live. Some of the things look down at the ground and tell us what is here. Some of the things look out at further away things and tell us what they are like. Some of the things help us talk to people who are far away or watch tv or drive our cars to the right places.
Lots of other things are in the same places and might break the good things further than the sky. We need to know where the bad things will be, so that we can move the good things a little bit to make sure they don't get hit and broken. There are lots of these bad things, and they go very fast - faster than a thing fired from a gun. They are also quite small - smaller than your head. And they are a long way away - up further than the sky. So we need to see all the small things, going very fast, a long way away and work out where they will be next. For this we need lots of computer eyes with glass on them, and some big computers and perhaps some new things we should send further than the sky to look for the bad things.
Some other things further than the sky are bigger and might hit the place where we live. And that might break things, perhaps even break everything and everyone (like we think it did for the big cold animals that used to live here). So we also want to see these things in time that we could send a new thing further than the sky, and move the bad thing, or break it up, or something. People write movies about this sort of bad thing, but they get it wrong
Permalink
Let's say you want to find life on other worlds. This is hard because we don't know what we are looking for. So we want to find a way to find life even when we don't know what it might look like.
So we want to think of things that life always does. We want to find something we can look for that will be there any time there is life, even if that life doesn't look like us. The problem is that we only have one kind of life to look at, and that's us!
Life changes over time. Some living things die and some living things live, because some are better at living. The better-at-living things grow and have children and the worse-at-living things die and don't have children. And so over time there are more of the better-at-living things. This always happens to all life, and it turns out we can use this fact to help find life even when we don't know what it looks like!
Let's say you have a hundred different colors of blocks, and you want to use them to build living things. It is hard to make each kind of block, so it takes less work if you only use some of them, instead of all hundred.
Because of this, living things that make use of only a few colors of blocks are better-at-living than things that try to use all the colors of blocks at once.
When there is no life, the colors of blocks get picked in a different way.
Permalink
When the man's wife died, his friend came to the house. To his surprise he found the man sitting on his knees, making up a song.
"After all," said the friend, "she lived with you, brought up your
children, grew old with you. That you should not cry for her is bad
enough, but to let your friends find you playing music and making up songs --that is
going too far!"
"You don't understand me," said the man. "When she died, I was in very sad,
as any man well might be. But soon, thinking about what had happened, I
told myself that in death no strange new thing happens to us. In the
beginning, we don't have life and we don't have form.
We are all together. Then a
time came when things changed, and we had form, and then we had life. And now another change has brought death. For not only the world
but man's being has its times of change like the changes of the year, from cold to warm to cold. If someone is tired and has gone to lie down,
we do not chase him with shouting and crying. The one I have lost
has lain down to sleep for a while in the Great Inner Room. To break in
upon her rest with the noise of crying would but show that I knew
nothing of world's way. That is why I stopped crying and began to make music."
Permalink
When a business or group of people wants to build a big thing with lots of different parts, and each part is built by someone different, it is hard to make sure all the parts work together. This is because each person builds their own part without talking to the other people, or they think that building it the same way again should work this time.
I look at the thing as one big thing, then break it down into smaller things, while making sure that the parts will still go back and make the big thing work. Then each person can build their thing and be sure that when all the bits are joined, the big thing works.
I make sure that the important words that tell people what to build are written so that: everyone can understand them, they are clear about what to do, they say when the part is needed, and they are not too hard to do.
If some important words talk about something that two people need to agree on, then I make sure that they both agree, and they sign a piece of paper to say they agree. This is good when a part is needed by one person, but is made by another person.
If some of the important words need to change, I make sure that the change doesn't cause lots of other changes in the other important words - sometimes these changes can cause surprises and problems.
I use a computer which stores the important words, and joins the important words which talk about one part with the important words which talk about another part. Then I can see what happens when some of the important words change, and check that th
Permalink
What I do:
I help people learn to think about how the world started, how it changed, and why it is the way it is today. Everything started with a small point somewhere, far far away, out there in space, and then it got bigger and bigger as it all went out in all directions from there. At first only tiny things, too small to see, are made, but after a while they get together with other small things to make bigger things, and those big things get even bigger as other small things join them. The biggest things get so big that they get really hot and make light. The smaller things go cold and hard and always fall around the biggest things. They change over time. Some parts of the small things made of rock are low, and they get wet. Other parts made of rock are high, but they get smaller over time as small bits of rock fall off them. The small bits make new rocks. Some rocks end up deep inside, and get changed into new rocks. Some new rocks go up to make high parts again. When high parts form the world can shake and break, and people can get hurt, or hot stuff can come out of the high parts, and that also hurts people. We look at all the ways that these things happen, why they happen, and I try to make it fun to learn about it!
Permalink
Just a small town girl
Living in a world without many people
She took the train that leaves at the start of the next day going any place
Just a city boy
Came to be and raised in the lower part of the bad city with many mean people
He took the train that leaves at the start of the next day going any place
A person who yells their feeling to music in a room that you can't see well in
A smell of a grown-up drink and stuff you put on to smell nice that didn't take much money to get
For a smile they can share the night
It goes on and on and on and on
People who don't know each other waiting
Up and down the street
Their shadows searching in the night
Light on the street people
Living just to find feeling
Hiding somewhere in the night
Working hard to get my fill
Every person wants a good feeling
Paying anything to roll the dice just one more time
Some will beat other people, some will lose
Some were brought up to say words to music about the blues
Oh, the movie never ends
It goes on and on and on and on
Don't stop believing
Hold on to that feeling
Lights in the street people
Don't stop believing
Hold on
Lights in the street people
Permalink
Humans all over the world use power to make life easier or more fun. Power is what turns lights on, and runs computers, and other cool things like that.
There are lots of ways to make this power, like burning very old things found deep in the ground. But one day we might run out of these old things from the ground, and burning them is not good for the air. So now lots of people are finding ways to make power from the sun, wind or waves, and other forces which won't run out.
To make power from the waves, we made a long, round thing which moves up and down as the waves move up and down. It's so big, it's as long as a building, and it's red, so people can see it if they get too close. When it moves up and down, this makes smaller things inside it start working, which makes power. Then all the power is brought to land, so people can use it to turn on their lights or run their computers.
We started trying to make wave power more than ten years ago, and we've done lots of amazing things with some nice businesses in that time. We've learned a lot about what the best way to make power from waves is, because it's quite a hard thing to do. Now we are working to find ways to make our things even better, and we have lots of plans which will help us make them in less time and for less money too. One day we think lots of power will come from the waves, all over the world.
Permalink
Have you ever been in your house when the sun is very bright outside? Your house might get too hot. But sometimes, like at night, your house can feel too cold. Wouldn't it be nice if we could keep the warm from during the day and use it at night? It would also be good if we didn't have to spend so much money to keep our houses not too warm and not too cold.
We need to make sure that the air in the building moves through it. This is because we want to make sure that the hot air and cold air are in the right places and that there is enough clean air for us to breathe.
I look at ways of doing this by using the way that hot air moves up, together with the wind, rather than having to push the air through the building. This means we don't have to spend so much money on making the air move through the building.
I use this idea together with things in the walls that change from being hard like ice to being able to move like water. When it is hot outside, this makes the things I use change from being hard like ice to being like water, instead of making the room hot. When it is colder, the things change back from being like water to being hard like ice, which makes the room warmer.
If we know how these two things work together, we can keep our houses not too hot and not too cold without needing to spend too much money on making the air hotter or colder.
Permalink
Here goes my attempt to explain a little bit about numbers and hidden stuff. We make use of hard problems to keep our stuff safe.
If you want to sign your words, you are going to need some keys. There are two ways of doing things. One way means you have to use and hide a single key. It does not work very well because an attacker can take your key and pretend to be you!
The other way uses two keys. When you use the second way, we say that you are using shared key number stuffs.
An often-used shared-key number stuff thing is pretty well-known. To understand it, you first need to know a little bit about not easy to break numbers. For very large numbers it is really hard to figure out which number times another number makes that number. It is way, way hard if those two numbers can only be found by taking one times each number. We say that numbers like these are not easy to break.
Say you have 15. It can only be 3 times 5 (or 5 times 3). But if you have 16, it could be 8 times 2 or 4 times 4. Having more numbers makes it easier to break. For slow computers 15 would be a not easy to break number, but 16 would not. The easy cases of 15 times 1 or 16 times 1 don't help us or hurt us.
Once we find two really big not easy to break numbers we can find a much bigger very not easy to break number which we call a shared key.
Your not-shared key is just remembering both of the not easy to break numbers that you used to make a very not easy to break number.
It would take more computers than we can make to figure out w
Permalink
He said she was beautiful, and he meant it. She was the kind of woman he never knew he was searching for. Her skin was dark from years spent under the sun, but soft like a child's, and her hair was the color of coffee. It was her eyes, though, that did it; clear and green and always laughing. Her eyes held the answers to all of life, he thought. He knew the moment he saw her that she would be his.
He said she was perfect, and he meant it. She was both young and old; a child's heart with a woman's blush. She would call him close, then send him away without a care. She said she was his, then changed her mind in a moment.
He said he would do anything for her, and he meant it. When she said go, he went. When he came back, she laughed and asked why. He told her he loved her. She cried softly, "You stupid boy." When she finally said stay, he told her, "Always." He took off his green jacket, threw his gun to the water. He stayed through the night, held her close until morning.
He said he would return, and he meant it. When the men came to find him, with their guns and green jackets, he whispered, "Wait for me." With not a tear in her clear, green eyes, she whispered back, "Always."
He left with the others, took his place in line, to fight for a cause that never was his.
She said she would wait, and she meant it. When he finally came back, she fell to her knees. Four years gone by, so long to wait. He looked just the same as the last day she saw him, but a little more tired and no longer a boy. He sighed at the
Permalink
How to tell people about ideas they are not sure about yet.
Sometimes things are hard to understand and everything seems dark. It could be that the idea is very new and weird. Other times the idea was thought up by a very bright person which makes it harder for people like you and me to 'get' it. Sometimes though (and this is the worst) its just because no-one thought to explain it in the right way.
Strange ideas can often be broken down into something that is actually very simple. Sometimes it is enough to understand a little bit but not be sure of every part. Sometimes all you need is a bit of an idea to make you go out and find the rest of it.
I say, try it. Try to understand and try to explain. Then we can all know what's going on and no-one has to be afraid of the dark.
Permalink
How to train a dog to laugh: Smile and run your hands over the dog's head, then kiss him on the nose. Find a stuffed animal for him to tear up and then another. Throw it so he has to chase it far away and then bring it back to you. Throw it again. When he brings it back, roll on the ground with him and put your arms around him. He will laugh, trust me, because you will be laughing.
How to train a dog to frown: Make him sit and wait and then lie down while you hold his favorite stuffed animal. Pretend like you do not see him. Pretend like you do not know that this stuffed animal needs to be torn up. Pretend like you are going to put it away. Don't let the dog out of stay. Don't laugh.
How to train a dog to tear up a stuffed animal: No training needed!
Permalink
By looking at the way things move in space, we can tell that there is more stuff in the world than what we can see with our eyes. Things in space are moving so fast that the pull from other things close by is not big enough to keep them in place. People have guessed that there is new stuff that we can't see that also pulls on things in space, so they don't fly away. We know that this new makes up most of the world, so we want to try to find it.
This new stuff is made of tiny things that don't look like any other tiny things that we know of. Even though we can't see it, we can see what happens when it hits other things. When one tiny thing hits another tiny thing in a block of stuff, that tiny thing knocks around other tiny things in the block of stuff and the block of stuff gets hotter. We can look at how hot the block of stuff gets and how many tiny things are knocked out to tell what kind of tiny thing hit the block of stuff.
This is a really hard thing to do, because many different kinds of tiny things can hit the block of stuff, and there can be so many of these things that they cover up the new stuff we want to find. Sometimes people send other types of tiny things into the block of stuff to see what it makes the block of stuff do. If what the block of stuff does after a known type of tiny thing hits it is different than what happens when something we don't know hits it, we can look at how it's different and take out the tiny things that are covering up the new stuff we want to find.
Permalink
By and by, we started noticing a sound in the room
A light-breath-like noise in the room
We followed it from corner to corner
We pressed our ears against the walls
We crossed not-straight lines
And put our hands on the floor
Sometimes it was a mumble
Sometimes it was a heart-sound
Sometimes it seemed to disappear
But then with a half-half turn of the head
It would roll around the couch
A light-ring-like noise-making smoke
Maybe it's the noise of a calm ice-box
Cooling on a big night
Maybe it's the noise of our parents voices
Long ago in a soft light
Maybe it's the noise of changing ideas
Or a strange speak-way, god-talking
Maybe it's the repeat-word of the walls and light-breath-ways
Deep breathing in soft air
Permalink
'Ladybirds' are very small animals with six legs. They have a hard outer body but can fly. They are beautiful, often with black spots on red but also red spots on black or white spots on brown and many other types. There are more than 5000 types around the world. 'Ladybirds' are sometimes used by people to help grow food because some types eat other very, very small animals with six legs that eat things that we grow for food. But most people just enjoy seeing these small animals out and about in all kinds of places. My work needs people to tell me where and when they saw these animals so I can find out more about how the changing world is changing the way these amazing animals live.
Permalink
The change in the way the water on the top of the ground moves when less water enters the area:
Water in the ground moves in a known way. The direction can be found by seeing how high the water is in one well and how high it is in another well; the water moves from the high well to the lower well. We can also find the direction of water under the ground because when the water moves from the top well to the lower well, it picks up small things on the way. The direction water moves on the top of the ground is not as easy to know because we can not see how high the water is because it is always moving. We can use the change in small things from one water to another water along with the things that are in the area which could get picked up by the water. This can show which water is the start water and which water is the end water, which can tell us which direction the water on the top of the ground is moving. One start water can also have many end waters. We used the same area for many years, some years had a lot of water entering the area, other years had less water entering the area. We want to know if the water moves in the same way in wet and dry years. We found that in wet years there are the same start and end waters, and in dry years there is sometimes no end water, which might show that the water on top of the ground is not always moving in the same way. If we have more dry years ahead, we may not have as many small things in the water because the water is not moving as much.
Permalink
It is said that a picture is as good as ten hundred words. My job is to get computers to make pictures out of numbers and words so we can understand them better. These numbers and words can be about people, places and all kinds of things.
It might sound easy, but the real work is in making those pictures tell us something we didn't know about those numbers and words. It is easy to make pictures about a few things or things we already know, but much harder when we have large sets of numbers or words. Showing everything at once can be really hard.
Computers help because they can work with the numbers quickly and are good at drawing pictures with lots of colors and lines. They also allow us to play with the pictures to change how they look. Some of my work is also about how our brains understand these pictures so that we can make better ones.
There are a lot of beautiful number pictures out there, but many of them are bad in that they don't show us anything interesting or important. A good picture helps us to understand new things and make us think. The best pictures grab our interest, often by telling a 'story' and so show us new stuff we didn't know before.
Permalink
My Cat. A True Story.
We have a cat. He lives in our house with us, but he also likes to go outside. Sometimes he will come out for a walk with me at night, and sometimes he will go out for a walk on his own. Sometimes when he goes out for a walk on his own he gets lost, and does not come back for days and days. We do not like this, because we do not know where he is, or when he will come back.
Because we like to know where our cat is, we have a very small thing that goes around his neck. This thing makes a sound. (It is not really a sound. It is a kind of wave that you can not see or hear. But it is like a sound.) We also have a box that can hear the sound made by the thing around the cat's neck. When you turn on the box you can hear the cat, as long as the cat is not more than a hundred feet away.
Two weeks ago our cat went for a walk one night and did not come back the next morning. We turned on the box, but we could not hear the cat. This meant that the cat was more than one hundred feet away. So my wife went to look for the cat. She got in the car and turned on the box and went for a drive in the streets near our house but she could not hear any noise. So the cat was not in any of the streets near our house.
Now it is not easy to use the cat finding hearing box if you are going in a car because the box does not work so well if you are inside a car. So my wife had to go for two hundred feet and then stop the car and get out of the car and not hear the cat and get back in the car
Permalink
Look at the stars,Look how they go bright for you, And everything you do, Yeah, they were all the color of the sun. I came along, I wrote a song for you, And all the things you do, And it was called the color that is between green and that color that is the name of a round thing you eat that comes from a tree. So then I took my turn, Oh what a thing to have done, And it was all the color of butter. Your skin, Oh yeah your skin and the white hard things in your body, Turn into something beautiful, You know, you know I love you so,You know I love you so. I did go across water using my arms and legs, I jumped across for you, Oh what a thing to do. Because you were all the color of Mr Tweety, I drew a line, I drew a line for you, Oh what a thing to do, And it was all the color of the two lines in the road. Your skin, Oh yeah your skin and white hard things, Turn into something beautiful, And you know, For you I'd let warm red stuff run out of my body, For you I'd let warm red stuff run out of my body until i am dry. It's true, Look how they go bright for you, Look how they go bright for you, Look how they go bright for, Look how they go bright for you, Look how they go bright for you, Look how they go bright. Look at the stars, Look how they go bright for you, And all the things that you do.
Permalink
We make the air and the ground warmer by burning stuff which goes into the air. This stuff stops the air cooling a bit . It also changes winds and rain. Making the air warmer and changing winds causes problems because we are used to things being as they are. There are things to do to stop warming but we are not good at doing them. A new idea to stop warming is to put other stuff high in the sky. It might make it less warm but not in all places. Also, the winds and rain might still change and so even if we put the other stuff in the sky we still have to deal with changes. This is a problem. I want to know how the changes from burning stuff are different from the changes we get when we put the other stuff in the air to stop the warming. I also want to know whether different types of stuff (which also stop warming) change the winds and rain less. This will help us decide if we want to put other stuff up there to stop warming.
Permalink
We make talking-boxes. You speak into them, and your voice comes out of another talking-box somewhere else.
Our talking-boxes are really little computers.
My job is to whisper to computers - our talking-boxes - and to write directions that tell them how to work. I work with tens of other people-who-whisper-to-computers. It can be fun but is sometimes quite hard. This is because our talking-boxes can be hard to understand and I have to spend time learning why they work in they way they do.
I help make new talking-boxes that work better than the old ones. Sometimes the people we make talking-boxes for want them to work in a different way, so I write new computer-directions. I like to make things that help me, and the other computer-whisper-people, whisper better and write better computer-directions. I sometimes also have to fix wrong directions that I, or the other computer-whisper-people, wrote.
When I have finished writing some computer-directions I have to have my work checked. The direction-checking-people check that it does what it should, and the other computer-whisper-people check that they understand my directions and that what I wrote makes sense.
Sometimes I work with the head computer-whisper-guy to decide what directions we need to write next, and explain this to the other whisper-people. Sometimes I have to help the other whisper-people understand the different kinds of computer-directions that we use.
It makes me happy when I have written a lot of directions for our talking-boxes and they wo
Permalink
People have lived in houses for a long time, but people have got better at doing things. Old houses were very good when they were new, but are not very good these days for people. Some people like old houses because they are pretty, but they are not good to live in. New houses are sometimes pretty, but not always. People should look at old houses to help make new houses pretty, and use new things to make old houses good to live in. Some people do not like old and new ideas to work together because they want old things to just stay old. I just want to live well, and so did the people who built the old houses. Living well is better for people than knowing things, but you can still know things even when you try to live as well as you can. People who want old things to stay old are scared that if people live well they will not want to find things out, but I just think they are trying to keep their jobs keeping old things old and stopping people from living well. I try to find out things about old houses so that we can live better lives in our new houses, not to keep the old houses old. New things can be pretty too, but I want to make sure we have the best, and live as well as we can, because we will all die soon. The people who built the old houses died, and we should remember that. Life is for living, and houses are for livin
Permalink
People are made up of lots of cells. Many living things aren't. In fact, most living things in the world are only one cell - they are just too tiny for you to see. Some of these one-cell living things are bad, and make you sick. Some of them are good, and might be able to help us with some problems.
The one-cell living things that I work with are some of the good ones. Right now, we have a problem with bad things in the air that are making our world hotter. The one-cell living things I work with eat some of the bad things in the air. We want to help more of them grow, so that they can eat more of the bad stuff in the air.
Just like us, there are some things that the one-cell living things need to eat to stay happy (and to be able to eat the bad things in the air.) My own work focuses on how exactly they get the things that they need to be happy. I spend a lot of time taking care of my one-cell living things by giving them different kinds of air and looking at the things inside of them. This is very slow, so I spend a lot of time telling them to grow faster. Most of the time, they don't. Sometimes I wish I had a cat to take care of instead.
Permalink
Suppose you are reading a book about computers, and you want to find every place in the book where it talks about a man called Mr Turing. (Mr Turing knew a whole lot about numbers. He lived before we had computers, but some of the things that he said about numbers are very important if you want to understand how computers work. So if you were reading a computer book and you would want to read about him.) So how do you find all the places in the book where Mr Turing is?
Well, you can go through the whole book looking at each word and seeing if it is 'Turing'. But that would take a very long time. You would have to read the whole book. So the people who make books have already done this for you, and if you go to the back of the book you will find a whole set of the important words that are in the book, all in the right order, so you can find them easily And next to each word it tells you exactly where in the book to look. So you would go to the back of the book, and find the place where Mr Turing's name was. And next to that it would tell you all of the places in the rest of the book that talked about Mr Turing, so you could go straight to those places without having to look at the part of the book that you didn't want to read.
Now you may think that to build this set of words at the back of the book would take a long time, and you would be right. Someone had to read through the whole book, and mark all the places with Mr Turing's name. And they would have to mark all of the places for all of the other compu
Permalink
Several studies have found that there is a time that people learn to speak ending at some point before people become grown up, after which learning to speak doesn't happen all the way. Other studies, usually focusing on people who haven't grown up all the way, have also found that this thing happens when learning another way of speaking. Even so, little is known about the way these changes in ways of speaking happen in situations where people with different ways of speaking talk to each other. This is an important question because it happens a lot, like how people who are grown up deal with people who speak in different ways all the time if they move away from where they learned to speak. This study looks at this problem by figuring out the ways two groups of people speak and hear words and sounds: one group made up of people who have lived in the same town their entire lives, and the other made up of people who grew up in that town but moved away after they grew up. I talked to people and checked how they hear words to figure out how much the grown ups who moved away from where they grew up changed the way they speak and hear words and sounds away from the way they grew up, or changed to be more like the way people speak and hear where they moved to. It all finds that grown ups who move do make changes in their in the ways they speak and hear words and sounds when they're always hearing things that are different from what they grew up with, though not everything ends up changing.
Permalink
Schools need to be run well. It is important that this happens for several reasons.
First, children need to learn things that make them able to deal with life, and give them the sort of understanding they will need when they are grown up. People who do well at school will probably get paid more money for their work when they are grown up. This means they will be able to do more things that they want than if they left school without any bits of paper that said how well they had done. Some people think you will be more happy when you are grown up if you did well at school.
Second, the world we live in needs people who have this understanding. It is good for all of us if other people have done well at school because we need people who can be doctors, or who can fix broken things or plan how things will work. Having good schools means that one day there will be more people like this to help us.
So schools need to be run well to make sure these two things happen. The people who are in power have decided schools will run better if there is a group of people to help each head teacher. These people do not get any money for helping the head teacher.
The people think about how to run the school well. They tell the head teacher what their plans are for the school, and find out how the children are doing. One important person in this group is the chair and they have a job in the group that other people do not.
There is someone else who writes down what the group says so everyone knows what happened.
Permalink
'Prejudice' is liking or not liking something or someone because of how you feel about them. You don't have to have a good reason to like or not like someone. We all have people we like and people we don't. It is okay to feel things, and sometimes we can't help what we feel. We can help how we act, though.
'Discrimination' is acting on how good or bad you feel about someone. Such as, if you don't give a person a job because you don't like people with red hair (or people with dark skin, or women, or people who can't walk, and so on) because you don't think they are as good, or pretty, or bright as you are. When you do this, you take something away from a person when you don't know for sure that what you believe about them is true. And it is not right to act like every person in a group is the same: you don't know for sure that what you believe is true for all people, or most people, or even some people in the group.
'Racism' is what happens when many people believe the same thing about people who have different skin color, and act on what they believe. Here is how it works: If the people who think they are better because of their lighter skin color have most of money, or most of the guns, and own most of the land and can tell people with darker skins what to do, then all the things they take away from people with darker skins start to add up until the first group has much more than the second. The people in the first group also make sure that the people who have darker skins don't have a chance to get as much. In this kind of world, the people from both groups don't both start from the same point -- the people with the lighter skins start from a higher point, and so they can get more things more easily. (It takes money to make money.)
If this goes on for a very long time, the people with lighter skins start to believe that this is the way the world always was and should always be. Even some of the people in the second group start to believe this, because the lighter skinned people say it so often and sound so sure about it.
When almost everyone believes that a world where things are given or not given to people because of their skin color is a normal world, it becomes very hard to change things, because most people can no longer see anything is wrong. Those who point out that things are not right are told by other people that things are fine, or at least the way they SHOULD be.
A feeling about people with different skin color has become "the way things are." Lighter skinned people now believe what they feel about other people is real because they have made a world that matches how they feel, and at the same time, they have made sure that no one can change the world they have made. It is now very hard for anyone to make it better for all the people who live there, even if you want to.
The very bad thing is that all of this happens without most people wanting to make it happen. You don't have to be a bad person to make a world like this. There are not so many very bad people. But all it takes to keep things this way is not thinking about why you feel like you feel, and letting yourself act on the way you feel instead of thinking about what the world and people are really like. If you think hard about how to be the kind of person that you want other people to be, and do to them only what you would want them to do to you, then you can then you can make the world a better place for everyone.
Permalink
'PRESBYOPIA'
For us to see well light must make a very small point at the back of our eye. Our eye does this by making light coming into our eye go to a small point. It does this by making light change direction in the eye. This works for light from one place - like from far away. If we want to see well when light is from another place - like really close up, our eye has to change the direction of light more.
Our eyes can do this real easy and without help when we are young. But as we get older, the eye is less and less able to change the direction of light when we are looking up close. When we get to about 45 years of age, light from close up doesn't go to a small point any more. So we can't see well up close.
Why does this happen?
Inside the eye, there is a very small body part that helps the eye change the direction of light. When we want to see far away, this part is only a little round and changes the direction of light a little, but just enough so the light makes a small point. So we see well. When we want to see up close, this part changes and becomes much more round - like a ball - and so can change the direction of light more. Then we can see well up close, too. This part is able to become more or less round because it is very soft. That is, when we are young.
But as we get older, this part gets harder and harder. When this part gets too hard, it can not change how round it is, so the eye is not able to change how much it can change the direction of light. So we can no longer see well up close.
This is why older people need glasses to help them read.
Why does this part get harder as we get older?
Well, lots of people have a lot of different ideas. But really, we done know for sure. So we need to study the eye more. Perhaps we can come up with a way to stop this part getting hard. Then we can have young eyes for life.
Permalink
'Phenomenology' is a type of thought, made to try and find out more about the way we see and feel the world. We only know things about the world by seeing and feeling it, so it is important to understanding how we see and feel, and in what ways. This will tell us important things about how we know the world, and how we act in it. Understanding how we see and feel means we have to to pay close attention to things we do when we see and feel. But this might mean that when we do 'phenomenology', we are tying to see and feel how we see and feel, or we're paying attention to how we pay attention, which some people think is stupid. You can't hit a ball with that very ball, after all.
Permalink
'Schrodingers Cat'
Some people who think about the world a lot think that really really small things don't work the way that we think they will work. They say that most people only think about things the way normal (not really really small) things work and that really really small things work in a different way.
In their way of thinking about small things they said that some really really small things can be more than one thing at once and they only become just one thing at once when you actually go and check.
Mr Schrodinger made up a way of thinking about really really small things that makes you think that think things, even really really small things, can only be just one thing at once. He did this by making you think about his cat.
So he said that you should think about his cat in a box. He said that the cat was in the box and something happens that means that because of a really really small thing being more than one thing at once, the cat was either dead or not dead.
He made it so that the really small thing changed the really big thing, the cat, because the really really small thing makes something else that is looking at the really really small thing do something that makes the cat dead.
Now because the really really small thing was more than one thing, the cat was also more than one thing. It was dead and not dead at the same time. And it only became just one thing when you opened the box.
This doesn't make sense to most people so Mr Schrodinger's cat makes people ask whether really really small things can really be more than one thing at once.
Permalink
'Synaesthesia' is when people put together two or more different kinds of senses or thoughts into one single sense or thought. One kind of 'synaesthete' can see numbers or sounds as having colors while another can see days of the week in the space around their body. So far there are 61 kinds of 'synaesthesia' with more being found all the time.
People who study 'synaesthesia' have said that these people, even with their strange way of seeing the world actually use close to the same ways of thinking as the rest of us. The reason they think in a different way to the rest of us is because they see what happens in their and our mind a bit before we are usually able to see these things. In other words, they see what goes on in our minds before the world is put together into one easy to understand sense such as sight or sound.
There have been some studies that have shown that people without 'synaesthesia' think in some of the same ways as those with it. One such study showed that people, without thinking, used space to think of time. They had this thing called the 'SNARC effect'. Is where people can be shown to have a number line without thinking that they do. This has been shown to change how they think of numbers. Another study has shown that if you ask a very large number of people what color each number from one to ten is their answers will be close to each other. In other words, people, even without having 'synaesthesia' use color and space to understand numbers with out thinking that they do.
There is lots of different ideas of how 'synaesthesia' works in the brain but the biggest idea is that people with 'synaesthesia' have to brain areas that are put together in a stronger way than is usually the case.
Permalink
'Stratified medicine'
People get sick so we give them things to make them better. Not everyone who has these things gets better by as much as other people. We can change what we give the sick people to make them better by looking at them and what makes them sick. This means we can put them in different groups and give them things to make them better because of their group. There are many things we can use to make the groups, some of these can be found in our cells, some of them can be found in blood.
Permalink
'Archaeology' is learning about how humans used to live. To do this we find things in the ground. If we find up some things we can look at them to see how they were made and when they were made. We can study new things like cars but most things are quite old or very old. If something is very old then we know the person who made it is very old too.
We can also look at dead people who we have found in the ground. We can read their insides, like their teeth to see how they lived and died. When we have finished we can put the people back in the ground. But only if they are dead. If they still live then they do not enjoy being put in the ground and they glare at you. A lot.
Permalink
'Grace' is what people call it when God is nice to them, even though they don't have a right to it.
'Citizenship' is what we call it when we are part of a group.
Five hundred years ago, these ideas were both beginning to be understood in new ways. Because of this, we can see some ways in which these ideas are like each other in books they wrote and read.
Back then, some people named Mr. Luther and Mr. Calvin began to say that when God gives some people 'grace', he has to decide not to give it to other people. At the same time, people began to think that 'citizenship' was something that only the man in control could give to the people he controlled. In both cases, people couldn't get 'grace'/'citizenship' on their own. It had to be given to them by people who had power over them.
In a play by Mr. Shakespeare called 'Coriolanus', the people join together and kill a great man because he thinks he has a right to run the state, and they believe they have to give that right to him first. Mr. Coriolanus thinks that he should be in control because he is a great man, but the people think that doesn't matter. All that matters is that they call him great in an act of 'grace'.
In two stories by Mr. Spenser in his book called 'The Faerie Queene', one man called Mr. Redcrosse has to kill a bad animal and only does it after he
Permalink
'Consultants' are people who help other people to answer questions that they can not answer on their own. These questions could be very interesting, like how to bring food to people who need food, or how to make people happier. They could also be very boring, like how to make more money. Most 'consultants' want to answer this very boring question.
Answering this very boring question is both easy and hard. The easy part is that in order to make more money, you have to take it from someone else. The hard part is to find out which people you want to take the money from. There are four different groups:
One, the people who buy stuff from you; if you want to take their money, you have to make them believe that they need something that they do not need. Two, the people who you buy stuff from; if you want to take their money, you have to make them believe that you could get what you want from someone else for very little, even if you could not. Three, the people who work for you; if you want to take their money, you have to make them believe that you are nicer to them than other people they could work for, even if you are not. Four, the state; if you want to take its money, you have to make the right people believe that you do something good for everyone, even if you do not. This is called 'strategy'.
Putting everything together: 'Strategy' 'consultants' are people who can find the best lies for answering the most boring question in the world.
Permalink
I am the wife of an office worker. He does not work for himself or another one man: he works for all people in our land. When he is asked to move to another place to work, we move. I take care of the home, he takes care of work. Sometimes, we live far away from family and friends. This is hard. We move and our things are sent to us in the new place. We have lived in several apartments in many different cities. We live very far away right now, in a land far to the right of our family land. It is nearly one half the way round the ball on which we live. We will live here for several years.
Permalink
I am sure I have missed some things out, but this is the idea of what I am trying to find out:
When people are sad, worried or doing things that make their life hard, they sometimes feel they want to talk to someone who is not a friend or in their family. This is so they can just think about their own problems without being concerned how this might worry or annoy people close to them. They also might hope that this other person has some ideas of how to help by being kind, understanding. Together they will agree how best to think about things and what can be done by this talking.
The person who is sad or worried knows their own life very well and the person trying to help knows how to be with someone without making them worry about them. They may also have some ideas of what can help the person who is sad or worried.
But, sometimes the person trying to help does not understand or may say or do something the person who is sad or worried does not like. This is hard for the person who is sad or worried as they came to this other person for help.
If people who have had this happen can answer some questions about this it might mean the person who is trying to help can change how they do things or they might see that they need
to understand themselves better.
Permalink
I am learning how to do a job where we try to make people who are very sick better again. The people are sick because they have a problem in part of their body, where cells are building up much too quickly, not working right, and not dying when they should. This makes a ball of bad cells which can get in the way and stop other parts of their body from doing what they need to do, and also can hurt a lot.
We use a big box which makes waves, like light waves, but ones that are very strong and can break things that they hit. The waves can be used to kill the bad cells in a sick person. They have to come and lie in a room with the big box, and we point the big box at them so the waves come out and hit them. We do this every day for several weeks and bit by bit the ball of bad cells is broken down.
The waves can also kill cells in the good bits of their body, which can cause problems, so we try to stop too many waves reaching the good bits. To do this we have to take care to make sure the sick person is in exactly the right place every day, by checking lots of numbers. We also put the big box that makes the waves in lots of different places around the person, so the bad bit in their body get hit by lots of waves, and the good bits get hit by less waves. We use a computer to help us find out what the best places to put the big box in are.
The sick people don't enjoy lying in the room being hit by the waves, and sometimes it makes them feel even more sick for a while, but we hope that at the end the ball of bad cells in their body will be all gone and soon they will feel better again.
Permalink
I am going to explain what I did at the place where they help some strange people to do hard things they can't do on their own because it needs lots of money. Often this means making very small things go very fast or sending lots and lots of light at something all at once.
We like looking at things and taking pictures. Sometimes we want to look at things that happen really fast, like when light comes out of stuff for a very very short time, or when there isn't enough light to see stuff easily. You can also time when light gets to you to look inside someone to find what's wrong with them. That way you can also use to find out about what happens when you put tiny things together or hit them together.
The thing I worked on was very very very tiny - about as wide as a hair. The idea is you can put lots of them together and they make a thing like an eye but black and white and which is really good at seeing very little bits of light. Light comes in single bits which you can't cut up, and most eyes can only see seven or more at once when they're really really good. It's really hard to see just one at a time! But the things I worked on can see just one at a time because they are so tiny.
When a tiny bit of light hits the thing, it knocks out another tiny thing which is the same kind of thing that makes lights work. The thing that gets knocked out goes faster and faster and faster also for the same reason that lights work. It goes so fast that it knocks more of the things out! You can tell when a bit of light hits the thing because you get lots and lots and lots of makes-light-work things coming out, which is easy to tell when it happens.
The problem is that the eye-things I worked on doesn't see all of the bits of light because sometimes it misses them. What you need to know to make the things I worked on better is how often they miss bits of light. That can be hard for lots of reasons, but some of the reasons can be got around because some people found out how. One problem is that the eye-things can't always see the light-bits because they are too slow at looking, which is a different reason than the problem was to begin with. This is not a normal problem with other kinds of eye-thing so no-one knows how to get round it easily.
I found a way of making that second problem go away. It was easy to come up with but hard to find out if it was right, because you can't tell exactly how much light there is without using the eye-things. We made a computer think very hard about it for a long time and it found that I was right. Then we tried a different way of telling whether I was right using the real eye-things and we found that I was right again. That was nice, and now we want to tell lots of other people about it so that they can all make better eye-things.
Permalink
An 'Animator' is an art person who makes pictures that seem to have life. He is just a big lie bag, of course, because pictures have no life, but no one seems to mind. That's because It's all very exciting, especially for your eyes which like pictures so much that they hold on to them for a tiny part of a second. The lie bag knows this and shows your eyes very many pictures, very quickly. So quickly that your eyes tell your brain that cats and dogs walk on two legs, and talk, and beat the shit out of each other. It is such fun for the lie bag to do this that he will make pictures all day and night for years just so you will laugh at the talking cat. While making not-real cats, he eats not-real food, drinks not-real drinks, and dreams of a not-real girlfriend. We can be happy that we have lie bags to make things with no life seem to have life. Except for themselves, of course.
Permalink
Guess the play.
There once were three not normal ladies. They wanted to get a man to kill the head guy of a land. They used his want to become head to do this. He wasn't sure if he wanted to do it, but his wife got him to kill the head guy. He killed the head and made it look like the guards did it. The man then killed the guards while the sons ran away. The man was afraid because the three not normal ladies saw the man's friend's son as head guy. So the man got three people to kill the friend and his son. They killed the friend but not the son. The man went back to the not normal ladies. The ladies said the man should be afraid of another man, but that the man would lead until the trees walked and he would not be beat by a man who came from a woman. The man was happy but still wanted to kill the other man and his family. The family died, but the other man still lived. The other man was very angry and got the dead head guy's son to join him and make a group of men. These men went after the man. They did with trees, making it look like the trees were walking. While this was happening, the three not normal ladies made the man's wife feel sad about the killing and go crazy. She kept cleaning her hands and then killed herself. After the trees walked, the man decided to fight the other man. The other man told the man that he did not come from a woman (sort of). The other man killed the man. The end..
Permalink
The tiny thing that makes all other tiny things heavy.
When things are broken up into smaller and smaller things, eventually you get down to the very smallest things in the world. There are 61 of these tiniest things, which together make everything in the world.
People have wondered, though, what makes these tiny things heavy? Bigger things become heavy by being made of these tiny things. But what makes the tiniest things heavy?
The best guess explained this by saying that all around us is a field, which is a bit like water or some other stuff that would slow you down if you tried to walk through it. But in this field, some things move really easily, and others have a lot of trouble. The harder it is for one of these tiny things to move through the field, then, the heavier that thing is. So, if one moves through the world without even noticing the water-like-stuff (the field), then it turns out not to be heavy at all. If it has a lot of trouble, then it's really heavy.
But until last year, people weren't completely sure this field was real. But they knew that if it was real, and you shook it really hard, then a totally new tiny thing would fall out of it. That's because it's a bit like the water-like-stuff is made out of this new tiny thing.
So if they could find this new tiny thing, they could be pretty sure that the water-like-stuff was all around us, making all the tiny things heavy.
It took a lot of money and years of work, but last year they found this totally new tiny thing. Now they are pretty sure
Permalink
The Cat Covering His Head (part 2)
And then he ran out.
And, then, fast as a knock,
The Cat Covering His Head
Came back in with a box.
A big red wood box.
It was shut with a snap.
"Now look at this game,"
Said the cat.
"Take a look!"
Then he got up on top
With a wave of his head-cover
"I call this game fun-in-a-box,"
Said the cat.
"In this box are two things
I will show to you now.
You will like these two things,"
Said the cat making his head low.
"I will pick up the snap.
You will see something new.
Two things. And I call them
Thing One and Thing Two.
These Things will not bite you.
They want to have fun."
Then, out of the box
Came Thing Two and Thing One!
And they ran to us fast.
They said, "How do you do?
Would you like to shake hands
With Thing One and Thing Two?"
And Girlfriend and I
Did not know what to do.
So we had to shake hands
With Thing One and Thing Two.
We shook their two hands.
But our wet being said, "No! No!
Those Things should not be
In this house! Make them go!
"They should not be here
When your mother is not!
Put them out! Put them out!"
Said the wet being in the big cup.
"Have no fear, little wet being,"
Said the Cat Covering His Head.
"These Things are good Things."
And he gave them a hand.
"They are good. Oh, so good!
They have come here to play.
They will give you some fun
On this wet, wet, wet day."
"Now, here is a game that they like,"
Said the cat.
"They like to fly papers,"
Said the Cat Covering His Head.
"No! Not in the house!"
Said the wet being in the big cup.
"They should not fly papers
In a house! They should not.
Oh, the things they will knock!
Oh, the things they will hit!
Oh, I do not like it!
Not one little bit!"
Then Girlfriend and I
Saw them run down the hall.
We saw those two Things
Knock their papers on the wall!
Knock! Hit! Hit! Knock!
Down the wall in the hall.
Thing Two and Thing One!
They ran up! They ran down!
On the line of one paper
We saw the new dress Mother has!
Her dress with the bits
That are pink, white and red.
Then we saw one paper knock
On the head of her bed!
Then those Things ran about
With big knocks, jumps, and kicks
And with steps and big sounds
And all kinds of bad games
And I said,
"I do not like the way that they play!
If Mother could see this,
Oh, what would she say!"
Then our wet being said, "Look! Look!"
And our wet being shook with fear.
"Your mother is on her way home!
Do you hear?
Oh, what will she do to us?
What will she say?
Oh, she will not like it
To find us this way!"
"So, do something! Fast!" said the wet being.
"Do you hear?
I saw her. Your mother!
Your mother is near!
So, as fast as you can,
Think of something to do!
You will have to say: No more
Thing One and Thing Two!"
So as fast as I could,
I went after my tie.
And I said, "With my tie
I can get them I think.
I think, with my tie,
I can get those Things yet!"
Then I let down my tie.
It came down with a sound!
And I had them! At last!
Those two Things had to stop.
Then I said to the cat,
"Now you do as I say,
You pack up those Things
And you take them away!"
"Oh dear!" said the cat.
"You did not like our game...
Oh dear.
That's too bad!
That's too bad!
That's too bad!
Then he shut up the Things
In the box with the snap.
And the cat went away
With a sad kind of look.
"That is good," said the wet being.
"He has gone away. Yes.
But your mother will come.
She will find this big bad!
And this bad is so big
And so deep and so tall,
We can not pick it up.
There is no way at all!"
And then!
Who was back in the house?
Why, the cat!
"Have no fear of this bad,"
Said the Cat Covering His Head.
"I always pick up all my play things
And so...
I will show you another
Good game that I know!"
Then we saw him pick up
All the things that were down.
He picked up the sweet,
And the fingers-with-handle, and the dress,
And the white-wet, and the ties,
And the books, and the eating-round,
And the wind-paper, and the cup,
And the water car, and the wet being.
And he put them away.
Then he said, "That is that."
And then he was gone
With a nod of his head-cover.
Then our mother came in
And she said to us two,
"Did you have any fun?
Tell me. What did you do?"
And Girlfriend and I did not know
What to say.
Should we tell her
The things that went on there that day?
Should we tell her about it?
Now, what should we do?
Well...
What would you do
If your mother asked you?
Permalink
The Cat Covering His Head, part 1
The sun did not warm.
It was too wet to play.
So we sat in the house
All that cold, cold, wet day.
I sat there with Girlfriend.
We sat there, we two.
And I said, "How I wish
We had something to do!"
Too wet to go out
And too cold to play ball.
So we sat in the house.
We did nothing at all.
So all we could do was to
Sit!
Sit!
Sit!
Sit!
And we did not like it.
Not one little bit.
Noise!
And then
Something made noise!
How that noise made us jump!
We looked!
Then we saw him step in on the step!
We looked!
And we saw him!
The Cat Covering His Head!
And he said to us,
"Why do you sit there like that?"
"I know it i wet
And the sun is not warming.
But we can have lots of good fun that is funny!"
"I know some good games we could play,"
Said the cat.
"I know some new grins,"
Said the Cat Covering His Head.
"A lot of good grins.
I will show them to you.
Your mother
Will not mind at all if I do."
Then Girlfriend and I
Did not know what to say.
Our mother was out of the house
For the day.
But our wet being said, "No! No!
Make that cat go away!
Tell that Cat Covering His Head
You do not want to play.
He should not be here.
He should not be about.
He should not be here
When your mother is out!"
"Now! Now! Have no fear.
Have no fear!" said the cat.
"My games are not bad,"
Said the Cat Covering His Head.
"Why, we can have
Lots of good fun, if you wish,
With a game that I call
Up-up-up with a wet being!"
"Put me down!" said the wet being.
"This is no fun at all!
Put me down!" said the wet being.
"I do not wish to fall!"
"Have no fear!" said the cat.
"I will not let you fall.
I will hold you up high
As I stand on a ball.
With a book on one hand!
And a cup on my head!
But that is not all I can do!"
Said the cat...
"Look at me!
Look at me now!" said the cat.
"With a cup and a sweet
On the top of my head-cover!
I can hold up two books!
I can hold up the wet being!
And a little play water car!
And some white-wet on an eating-round!
And look!
I can jump up and down on the ball!
But that is not all!
Oh, no.
That is not all...
"Look at me!
Look at me!
Look at me now!
It is fun to have fun
But you have to know how.
I can hold up the cup
And the white-wet and the sweet!
I can hold up these books!
And the wet being on a fingers-with-handle!
I can hold the play water car
And a little play man!
And look! With my ass-line
I can hold a red wind-paper!
I can make wind with the wind-paper
As I jump on the ball!
But that is not all.
Oh, no.
That is not all...."
That is what the cat said...
Then he fell on his head!
He came down with a noise
From up there on the ball.
And Girlfriend and I,
We saw all the things fall!
And our wet being came down, too.
He fell into a big cup!
He said, "Do I like this?
Oh, no! I do not.
This is not a good game,"
Said our wet being as he lit.
"No, I do not like it,
Not one little bit!"
"Now look what you did!"
Said the wet being to the cat.
"Now look at this house!
Look at this! Look at that!
You made our play water car go down,
Down deep in the sweet.
You shook up our house
And you broke our new fingers-with-handle!
You should not be here
When our mother is not.
You get out of this house!"
Said the wet being in the big cup.
"But I like to be here.
Oh, I like it a lot!"
Said the Cat Covering His Head
To the wet being in the big cup.
"I will not go away.
I do not wish to go!
And so," said the Cat Covering His Head,
"So
so
so...
I will show you
Another good game that I know!
[more to come...]
Permalink
The Man Who Knows Feet
There was a boy who was going to be head man in his city, but his mother and father were told bad things would happen, so they left him outside to die. He was found, and grew up in the house of another head man. One day, he was told this head man was not his father, so he went to ask a god who his father and his mother were.
"You will kill your father, and marry your mother," said the god, not helping much. But the god knew.
The boy was mad and wanted to stop what the god had said from coming true. On his way to a new place he had a fight with a man at a place where three roads meet. He killed the man. Then he met someone with a question: "What has four feet and two feet and three feet?" Like the answer to the question, he had been a baby and then a man and some day he would walk with a stick. When he said "A man has four and two and three feet", he made her go away. From the day he answered the question, he was known as the Man Who Knows Feet, or just "the Man Who Knows".
He went into a city and was told that their head man there had died and that, because he had answered the question, the Man Who Knows could marry the head man's wife and become the new head man! This was great, because it meant he would never go back home and do the bad things the god had said. The Man Who Knows married her and they made babies and lived happy for a time.
Then everyone in the city got sick. The same god who had said all the bad things before made the people sick. The Man Who Knows sent someone to ask the god why. The answer came that it was because the guy who killed the last head man still lived in the city.
"I will find that man!" said the Man Who Knows, since he was a good head man and was now good at answering questions. He began to ask everyone what happened long ago.
The man who talked to the god said that the Man Who Knows had killed the last head man. The Man Who Knows thought that this was a lie, and that the man who talked to the god wanted to be head man himself.
The wife of the Man Who Knows tried to make things better, and told the story: the last head man was killed by bad guys on the road, at a place where three roads meet.
This scared the Man Who Knows. He had once killed a man at a place where three roads meet, but it could not have been the last head man: "You said he was killed by bad guys. Not by one man!"
His wife said, "There is a man who was there, and we can ask him. He saw the last head man die and who made it happen. The guy who was there can talk about him. I mean them."
"Wait! What? Was it one man or many men?" asked the Man Who Knows. "One is not many!" he said.
The Man Who Knows Feet wanted to know more since he wanted to be the Man Who Knows, so he sent for the man who had seen this, many years ago.
While they were waiting, news came from the city the Man Who Knows Feet had lived in when he grew. The news man asked for the head man, and someone said, "This lady is his wife and mother -- of his children." The news man said that the head man in the other city had died.
In a strange way, this made the Man Who Knows Feet happy, because he thought it meant he would not kill his father, and the god was wrong. "I am still scared," he said, "since the god also said I would marry my mother."
"Let me make you feel better" said the news man. "The head man who died and his wife are not your mother and father!"
The Man Who Knows Feet did not understand.
The news man kept talking. "A man with animals gave a baby to me, and I gave it to that head man. He helped you grow, but he was not really your father."
When she heard this, the wife of the Man Who Knows ran away screaming. He did not know why.
That was strange, but then something stranger happened.
The man who had seen the death of the last head man many years ago arrived, and he was also the same man that the man with the news had been talking about. He was the man with the animals, who had saved the baby long ago.
The man with the animals said, "I gave a baby to some man."
"Was it this man?" asked the Man Who Knows Feet, wanting an answer to his question. "I will kill you if you do not tell me everything!"
"I do not know," said the man with the animals, "it was long ago."
"Who was the baby?" asked the Man Who Knows, not knowing. He hit the man with the animals, and made him hurt.
"Who knows? I do not want to say more. I want to die."
"Speak!"
"No. It was not a happy baby. The god said that it would one day kill its father and sleep with its mother. The head man here gave it to me and I gave it to that man there." He pointed at the man who had come with the news.
This helped the Man Who Knows Feet understand. He had an answer to his question, but it was not the answer that he wanted. In fact, he had the answer to many questions: it was both one and many. He had been the baby on four feet. At the place where three roads met, he killed his father who was also the last head man of the city. And he had married his mother.
"Maybe we should not listen to the god," he said and ran inside. His wife had killed herself. When he saw, he knew. And, more, he knew he knew. He took out his eyes.
As usual, the god was right in the end. Now the Man Who Knows walks with a stick, like an old man.
He still is the Man Who Knows Feet and he is a sad man. He is the Man Who Knows who married his mother, and the Man Who Knows who killed his father.
Permalink
There was a boy who lived in a place that was hit by a space rock and attacked by a bad thing from space. The bad thing from space made people and animals bad, and it made a boy who lived next to the boy very mean. The boy who lived in the place found a flying animal that was also from space and it told him the things that were happening and that he was the one who could stop the things from happening. The flying animal told the boy that he had to go and find places of power around the world where he could fill his rock with power to beat the bad thing from space.
So the boy went around the world to the places of power and he filled his rock with power; along the way he found friends and they helped him. Sometimes they went with him and sometimes they didn't. Eventually, after the boy filled his rock and went into his own mind to make himself stronger, a doctor told the boy and his friends that the only way to beat the bad thing from space was to go back in time and kill the bad thing while it was able to be hurt.
The bad part about going back in time is that going back in time kills people, so the boy and his friends had to become computer men so they wouldn't die. After the doctor and some weird people made the boy and his friends into computer men, they went back in time and found the bad thing inside a thing - but there was another person there! It was the boy who lived next to the boy who, as it turned out, was actually doing stuff for the bad thing from space the whole time!
The boy and his friends who were now all computer men used their powers and stuff to beat up the boy who lived next to the boy, but the bad thing from space was harder to kill. Nothing that the people-turned-computer men could do seemed to do anything to the bad thing from space, so the girl computer man thought about other people really hard, which made the other friends that the boy made on his way think about him and his friends. This somehow helped the kids who were trying to kill the bad thing from space actually kill the bad thing from space.
Eventually when enough people thought about the boy and his friends after the girl though really hard, the bad thing from space was killed. What was bad was that the kids who were computer men were also beat up and they were also still stuck back in time because the thing they used was only good for one way. Somehow, the brains of the kids that were inside the computer men flew out of the computer man bodies, went up, and then went through time back to the bodies of the kids who saved the world.
The end.
Permalink
There was a boy who was going to be head man in a city, but his mother and father were told bad things would happen so they left him outside to die. He was found, and grew in the house of another head man. One day, he was told this head man was not his father, and so he went to ask a god who was his father and his mother.
"You will kill your father, and marry your mother," said the god, not helping much. The boy was mad and wanted to stop what the god had said from coming to be. On his way to a new place had a fight with a mad man on the road, at a place where three roads meet. He killed the man. Then he met someone with a question, and he answered the question: "What has four feet and two feet and three feet?" Like the answer to the question, he himself had been a baby and then a man and some day he would walk with a stick. When he said "A man has four and two and three feet", he made her go away. From that day forward, he was known as the Man Who Answers Questions about Feet, or just the Man Who Knows Feet. (He wanted to be "the Man Who Answers Questions" more, but people called him "the Man Who Knows Feet".)
He went into a city and was told that their head man had died and that the boy could marry the head man's wife and become the new head man! This was great, because it meant he would never go back home and do what the god said he would do. The Man Who Knows Feet married her and they had babies and lived happy for a long time.
Then everyone in the city got sick. The god (the same god who had said all the bad things before) made them sick. The Man Who Knows Feet sent someone to ask the god why everyone was sick. The answer came that it was because the one who killed the last head man still lived in the city.
"I will find that man!" said the Man Who Knows Feet, since he was a good head man and was good at answering questions. He began to ask everyone what happened long ago.
A friend of the god became very mad, and said bad things, and so did the man who went to talk to the god. They said that the Man Who Knows Feet had killed the last head man. The Man Who Knows Feet thought that this was a lie, and that they wanted one of them to be head man.
The wife of the Man Who Knows Feet tried to make things better, and told the story: the last head man was killed by bad guys on the road, at the place where three roads meet.
This made the Man Who Knows Feet mad and scared. He had killed a man at a place where three roads meet, but it could not have been the last head man: "You said he was killed by bad guys. Not by one man!"
His wife said, "There was someone who was there, and we can ask him. He saw the last head man die and who made it happen. He can talk about him. I mean them."
"Wait! What? Was it one man or many men?" asked the Man Who Knows Feet. "One is not many!" he said.
The new head man wanted to know more since he wanted to be the Man Who Answers Questions, so he sent for the man who had seen this, many years ago.
While they were waiting, news came from the city the Man Who Knows Feet had lived in when he was a baby. The man with the news said that the head man in the other city had died.
In a strange way, this made the Man Who Knows Feet very happy, because he thought it meant that he would not kill his father. "I am still scared," he said, "since the god also said I would marry my mother."
"Let me make you feel better" said the man with the news. "The head man and his wife are not your mother and father!"
The Man Who Knows Feet did not understand.
The man with the news kept talking. "A man with animals gave you to me when you were a baby, and I gave you to the head man. He helped you grow, but he was not really your father."
When she heard this, the wife of the Man Who Knows Feet ran away screaming.
That was strange, but then something stranger happened.
The man who had seen the death of the last head man many years ago arrived, and he was also the same man that the man with the news had been talking about! The man who had seen the death of the last head man was the man with the animals, who had given the baby to the head man of the other city.
The man with the animals said, "A long time ago, I gave a baby to some man."
"Was it this man?" asked the Man Who Knows Feet, wanting an answer to his question. "I will kill you if you do not tell me everything!"
"I do not know," said the man with the animals, "it was long ago."
"Who was the baby?" asked the Man Who Knows Feet. He hit the man with the animals, and made him hurt.
"I do not want to say. I want to die."
"Speak!"
"No. It was not a happy baby. The god said that it would one day kill its father and sleep with its mother. When you were a baby, the head man here gave you to me and I gave you to that man there." He pointed at the man who had come with the news.
This made the Man Who Knows Feet understand. He had an answer to his question, but it was not the answer that he wanted. In fact, he had the answer to many questions. He had been the baby on four feet. At the place where three roads met, he killed his father who was also the last head man of the city. And he had married his mother.
"Maybe we should not listen to the god," he said and ran inside. His wife had killed herself. When he saw, he knew. And he knew he knew. He took out his eyes.
The god was right after all. Now the Man Who Answers Questions About Feet walks with a stick, and everyone just calls him the Sad Man Who Married his Mother.
Permalink
There are several kinds of being mad. You might hear voices when they are not there, or think things that are strange and wrong. Or you might feel very sad, or very happy and angry. Or you might worry about bad things happening too much.
You have lots of kinds of brain-talking-stuff in your head. This is stuff that lets little bits of your brain talk to each other, which lets you think and do stuff.
Being mad can be caused by having the wrong kind of brain-talking-stuff. If you don't have enough of one kind of brain-talking-stuff, it will make you very sad. If you have too much or too little of another kind of brain-talking-stuff, it will make you very crazy.
Being mad can also be caused by bad things happening to you, like if someone you like dies, or if bad things happened to you when you were a child. If you get hit on the head and hurt your brain, that can make you go mad too.
If you eat, drink or smoke too much of some bad things, they can make you go mad too. You shouldn't do this.
If you are mad, there are head-doctors who might be able to help you. They often work at head-hospitals. Some of them are talking-doctors, who will talk to you until you are not mad. They might talk about how things were when you were a child, or about how you think. Sometimes they will have a lot of mad people talk to each other.
Other head-doctors will give you stuff to make your brain-talking-stuff better. Some of this stuff can make you sick in other ways, like making your arms and legs not work so well, or making you not able to see right. Sometimes they won't work at all, and the head-doctors will have to try giving you a few different things to fix your brain-talking-stuff.
If you are very crazy, the head-doctors might have to shock your brain. A lot of people are scared of this, but it works quite well. It might make it hard for you to remember things for a while, though.
One of the first head-doctors was Mr. Freud. He thought that being mad happened because people were up-tight about bad thoughts, which we try not to remember. He came up with talking-doctoring. He had a lot of good ideas, but head-doctors now think that some of them were stupid. There was also Mr. Jung, who he showed how to be a head-doctor like him, but who didn't like him very much in the end. Mr. Jung had some very strange ideas about thought-forms that everyone has in the bottom of their minds. A lot of people ignore him now, which is sad. I quite like Mr. Jung's ideas.
There was also Mr. Reich, who was probably a bit mad himself. He thought there was this power in everything that could be used to make sick people better, and that it moved through the air. He also said things about how what Mr. Freud said explained a lot about why people like Mr. Hitler did bad things.
Permalink
There's a box that takes pictures of the red sky rock that's named for the god of fighting. It is far away, at the red sky rock. I make letters that tell the box that takes pictures how to do it, they get turned into light, and we send the letters through the sky to the box. The box catches it and does what I say. Usually, I take pictures of the ground of the red sky rock. Sometimes I take pictures of the other boxes there, or the space buses that are going to the red sky rock while they are flying through the air! The people who work on the other boxes like that a lot. Sometimes we take pictures of fast winds that make tiny ground pieces fly, and sometimes there's ice that changes from one picture to the next, and sometimes there's rocks falling down. The people who study the rocks and ice can know their stories better because I give them the best pictures of the red sky rock ever.
Permalink
Not so long ago people had no computers. They found answers to problems about numbers by hand. Those who were really good at using numbers thought they could find out an answer to any problem at all. Sure, there were some very hard problems to which people had no answers yet, but they believed they could get answers if they tried hard enough.
But then Mr Goedel surprised everyone by coming up with a very interesting problem about numbers. Not only did no one have an answer to it, Mr Goedel showed that no one could ever find an answer by using only numbers. If we wrote this problem with words instead of numbers it would say "I am a problem to which one can't find an answer by using only numbers". But to do this right, Mr Goedel had to write down this problem using only numbers, and *, no words. So he first found out how to use numbers as if they were words, and how to say all sorts of things by using just and *. This was a very new idea at the time. Today everyone has computers and we all know that computers store words, pictures, and music using just two numbers, 0 and 1. This was not so in the time of Mr Goedel.
Mr Goedel actually did more than that. You see, some people said: "We can't answer your problem using only numbers, but we can answer it using numbers together with some other stuff". Mr Goedel then showed these people how he could build another problem just for them, which they could not answer using numbers together with their other stuff. No matter how much stuf
Permalink
Our thing is a way to talk to a computer to make it do stuff. The stuff the computer does should be like something that happens in the real world. Making the computer act like the world acts helps us understand the world.
To make the computer do stuff we make lots of little things in the computer. We can talk to the little things and tell them what to do. The little things then move around and do things by themselves and with each other.
We tell each little thing what to do on its own. But because we can have lots of little things, they way they all act when each thing does its own thing makes a big, together-thing. Sometimes the together-thing is a surprise, and then we try to understand why it happens.
Lots of kids and teachers in schools around the world use our thing. It is also used by people who are trying to understand new things about the world, that have never been understood.
You can get our thing on your computer for free.
It was made by a guy from the little place by the middle water between the big lands where the people who used to live there now live there again. He now lives in the big place across the big water where there is lots of money and everyone can do what they want and have guns. The place where he makes our thing is at the big old school that was in the upper left corner of the money and gun land a long time ago before it got bigger.
Permalink
Four twenties and seven years ago our fathers brought about on this large land, a new state, thought up in being free, and made especially for the idea that all men are made the same kind of important.
Now we are busy with a great fight between the people of our own land, deciding whether that land, or any land so thought of, and made for such a reason, can last very long. We are met on a great fighting-field of that great fight between our people. We have come to make a part of that field as a last resting place for those who here gave their lives that that land might live. It is completely fitting and right that we should do this.
But, in a larger sense, we can't make this ground especially for one reason we can't it make goodwe can't look up to it. The not-scared men, living and dead, who struggled here, have made it good, far above our not-strong power to add or take away. The world will little note, and will not long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be make our job here especially for the not finished work which they who fought here have already moved forward in such a good way. It is rather for us to make it our the great job that is still before usthat from these looked-up-to dead we take more and more giving of our lives to that cause for which they gave the last full part of the giving of their livesthat we here decide in a very serious way that these dead will not have died for no reasonthat this land, under God, will have a new start of being free and that power of the people, by the people, for the people, will not die from the world.
Permalink
A small number of people have a thing which makes them see colors when they hear music, or feel like they are eating something when they hear words (many other pairs of senses can also get stuck together like this). This thing is called joined-sensing.
This is a plan of two things I did when I was a big student. It's about joined-sensing and how it can tell us about letters and numbers. I am very interested in two types of joined-sensing: when letters and numbers have colors (letter-color or number-color joined-sensing), and when letters and numbers seem to be in places in the space around the body (letter-space or number-space joined-sensing).
Paper 1: Letter-space joined-sensing. Most letter-space joined-sensing people who speak my mother tongue think that letters go in a straight line from left to right (but some do not). When people don't have straight lines, they usually have breaks or direction changes where the song about the right-letter-order has a pause for breath. Letter-space joined-sensing people remember where their letters go in space better than people who are asked to pretend that they have letter-space joined-sensing and when they are shown a letter they also look where the letter should go more quickly than people who are pretending. This probably means that they are really thinking of their letter-space joined-sensing when they look at letters.
Paper 2: Number-space and letter-space joined-sensing
Joined-sensing people and people without joined-sensing did one of two things: look at a letter and press with their left or right hand to say if it was upper case or lower case, or look at a number and press with their left or right hand to say if it was even or not even. I really wanted to know if they would be quick to press with their left hand it the number is small or the letter is early in the right-letter-order/ quick with the right hand if the number is large or the letter is late in the right-letter order. Both types of people do this for the numbers, but no-one does it for the letters. This probably means the two types of people are thinking about numbers in the same way as each other(at least in this situation). They are probably also thinking about letters in the same way as each other.
Permalink
The one who had the most points takes it all
I don't want to talk about the things we've gone through. Though it's hurting me, now it's something from the past. I've played all my cards, and that's what you've done, too. Nothing more to say, No more top cards to play. The one who had the most points takes it all. The one who has lost is standing small beside the other. That's what had to happen to her. I was in your arms, thinking this was my place there. I figured it made sense building me a wall, building me a home, thinking I'd be strong there. But I was stupid, doing only what is allowed. The Gods may throw things with six faces, with numbers on each face, their minds as cold as ice. And someone way down here loses someone dear.
But tell me does she kiss like I used to kiss you. Does it feel the same when she calls your name? Somewhere deep inside you must know I miss you. But what can I say? What has to be done, has to be done.
Permalink
The new sort of phones are better than the old sort because they have words and pictures, and because they can talk. The old phones could talk too, but they only said what the other person was saying. Now they can say other words, like people can.
Picking words to say can be hard, especially for a phone. It can be hard to understand other people too. I help to make a phone person called 'Evi' better at doing both of those things. She needs to learn lots of ideas and facts and words, and she also needs to learn how to put those together, because I can't tell her everything (there is too much). I think she is good at it now, but she still has a lot to learn. Sometimes when she is wrong she is funny. Sometimes she is also funny when she is right but I like that and if no one is looking I tell her other funny things to say.
Permalink
This book looks at the work of Mr. Niebuhr and
Mr. Sartre and imagines what they would say to each other if they weren't dead. The hope is that this will fix bad things in each man's work.
These two men agreed on a lot. Both thought that if we want to figure out the right thing to do, then we need to understand "the human situation" -- that is, what it is to be human. Both agreed that the human situation is one of being both free and not-free at the same time. Humans are not-free in that lots of important things are outside of their control, such as the kind of body they have, the kind of family they have, and how other people see them. But humans, not like other animals, are also free in that they can decide what they think about all of this and also pick lots of their acts and even sometimes how they feel. Both men thought that people get worried about the facts that they're free and not-free. Sometimes being free is hard because it's easier for someone or something else to pick your act for you, or pick how you feel, or say who you are, so that you don't have to. And sometimes being not-free is hard, like when you're sad about something you did in your past or about other things you can't control, and pretending you're free to control these things makes you feel better. And so both men thought that when people get worried about the human situation, they lie to themselves. When it's hard to be free, they pretend they're not-free, and when it's hard to be not-free, they pretend they're free. Both men thought that bad things happen when people lie to themselves this way (more on this in a bit).
But these two men were different in some ways. Some of these ways seem important, but really weren't. Like, Mr. Niebuhr believed in God and everything he thought about right and wrong had to do with the fact that there is a God, while Mr. Sartre did not believe in God and everything he thought about right and wrong had to do with the fact that there is no God. But they still agreed on the human situation. But they were also different in ways that mattered. Like, even though they lived at about the same time, they lived in very different places. Mr. Niebuhr lived in a place that was stronger than other places; Mr. Sartre lived in a place that was less strong. This may have caused them to focus on different ways that people lie to themselves about the human situation.
Mr. Niebuhr focused on when people lie to themselves by pretending that they're completely free when in fact they're not. He thought that this led those people to be bad to God (by focusing too much on things in the world instead of on God) and also to be not-just to other humans. Mr. Niebuhr didn't have a very good answer for what happens when people lie to themselves by pretending that they're not-free when really they are.
But Mr. Sartre did. He focused on when people lie to themselves by pretending that they're not free when in fact they are. He wanted people to own who they are and what they do. Like, he wanted people without power to see that they could still do something about their lives. And he thought that when people did bad things, they had to own that, because they were usually free not to do that bad thing. And he also thought that sometimes when people are not just to others it's because they pretend they have to be that way, because sometimes it feels good to be part of a group, and to feel that one was meant to part of that group, even when that group hates other groups.
Adding Mr. Sartre's work to that of Mr. Niebuhr makes for a better take on the human situation. Mr. Niebuhr got in trouble with women because he said that people wrong God and are bad to others when they act like they're up high, but women (these women said) usually already act like they're low, and listening to him would just lead them to act lower. This better take on the human situation fixes this by making it wrong for women to pretend that they're not free. Also, even though many people who believe in God think that people should not fight with guns, Mr. Niebuhr thought that sometimes doing so is the right thing. But he had no way to explain this with his take on the human situation. Now, with this better take on the human situation, he can say that sometimes people have to act and that it's wrong to pretend that they're not free to act.
Permalink
When people get too old to work, they need to get money from somewhere. But we can't usually just give people money (at least not lots of money) so if people want to live well after work, they need to save while they are still working.
Because people can live for a long time after they finish work, they have to save quite a lot of money to make sure that they can get paid as much as they would like when they are older. There are two (or three) ways of saving.
Sometimes people are told by their work how much they will be paid when they are old; this makes it easier to plan because they are pretty sure what they will get. But it is hard for their work to know how much to save to pay for it, in part because they will have to guess how long people will live after they finish work.
Other times what happens is that people just have to save while they work. They are told that, when they finish work, they will have to take the money they save and give it to another person who will then pay them until they die. This can make it harder for people to plan because they don't know until they do the deal how much they will get. But it is possible that they might get more money this way, especially if they are not well and might die soon.
There is a third way to do this, that doesn't yet happen very often but that some important people quite like. People still won't know exactly what they will get after they finish work, but they might be a bit more sure this way.
Many people find this all very hard to understand and need other people to help them work out what they should do. But it's not really so hard if you just think of it as putting money away for when you are old.
Permalink
When people go to a meeting, they sometimes want to show others what they work on. They use computers to show words and pictures on a white piece of wall. People usually bring these words and pictures with them on small things they put into the computer at the meeting. But sometimes they forget the small thing, or the thing does not work as they expect, or they do not know how to use the computer at the meeting. Would it not be easier if the words and pictures would just appear on their own when you enter the room where the meeting takes place?
To be able to do that, we need several things. First, we need to be able to put the words and pictures somewhere where every computer can get them without us having to carry around small things. There is such a thing, and with the help of it, computers can talk with each other. So when I want to talk about my work, I put the words and pictures on one computer. Let us call this computer the computer-with-stuff. When I come to the meeting, the computer in the meeting talks to the computer-with-stuff and gets the words and pictures (and movies, and sounds, and what else I might like to put there).
Sometimes, the computer I use can not understand the pictures and words (and movies and... you get the picture) I made, so the computer-with-stuff has to change it into a different kind of picture or movie, so the computer in the meeting can understand it.
This was the first thing we need. We now have our stuff on a computer and can get the pictures and words on every other computer we want to use.
But there is more. I have to remember how to get the computer I am using right now to talk to the computer-with-stuff. And I need to use the computer in the meeting room, which I might not know how to use. So I use my carry-around-phone, which can also talk to computers, to talk to both the meeting room computer and the computer with stuff. I only have to play with my carry-around-phone to make the meeting room computer talk to the computer-with-stuff and show us the pictures and words (and movies and sounds).
But I have to tell the carry-around-phone which computer should talk to the computer-with-stuff, because there are lots of other computers, and I do not want my pictures to show up on the wrong one. But it is boring to always tell my carry-around-phone which other computers are close by.
So the second thing we need is some way for the carry-around-phone (and other computers) to know where we are. And while we are at it, the carry-around-phones (and other computers) should know what I am doing. It might not be nice to interrupt other people talking about work with a movie I took of my friends having something to drink.
Permalink
In the hard school that came after college, I made new forms of matter that some nice people liked and wanted to read and hear about. Then they wanted to talk about the new matter and sometimes write about it too. This is because the new form of matter, which looks like a big ring, had a heavy thing in the middle of it, and no one had ever put such a heavy thing into this type of ring-like matter before. I wrote a lot about the new matter as well, and I found out that the new matter put out red light when I put blue light into it. A lot of people thought that this was good, because the light was so red, and it lasted for such a long time, and matter that is like the matter I made had not ever put out any light before that lasted for so long or was so red. Then I ran into some trouble because I didn't know what happened to the new forms of matter when I tried to make it have less of the little balls that power everyone's lights and computers. At first, I thought that the little balls were being pulled from the middle of the new forms of matter, because a computer told me that this made sense after I pulled the little power balls out of the matter and looked at it when it was very cold. But then another computer told me that actually the little balls came from the edge of the matter, which looks like a ring. In the end, I asked some friends to help me figure out which computer was right, and we decided that they were both wrong and the little balls come from all over the matter. This was pretty much because another couple of computers told us so.
I guess I should say that some people did not like my matter very much and thought that I should not have made it, or at least, they did not think that I should have written and talked so much about it. They said that my new form of matter was not that exciting even though it was new and heavy and put out all that red light. I think they said this because they did not feel that the red light would be important because it is not bright enough, and they did not think that the new heavy form of matter was really new at all, just an old form of matter with the heavy thing at the middle of the ring. I can see their point, I guess, but the people who decide who gets to write and talk about new matter decided that my matter was good enough for them, so now I get to make even more new matter, and I got a piece of paper that says I know a lot about matter and light. I like to pretend that this piece of paper does not make me happy, and most of my friends who have a paper like it do the same, but really, I like this piece of paper a lot. And that is how the hard school after college went for me.
Permalink
In almost every town, there is a place where you can go to get books, without having to pay any money for them. This place is called a 'library'. Instead, you share the books with everyone else in the town. You are able to take them home to read, but once you are finished with them, or once you reach the end of the time you are given in which to read them, you must bring them back. Sometimes, you can ask for more time, but if someone else wants to read the same book, you will usually not be given more time just then. You will have to wait until your turn comes around again. The whole point is to give everyone the same chance to read the books you are all sharing.
This place usually has each and every book put into its own space. It is kept in order by putting a letters or numbers onto the books to help show where each one goes. The letters might match the letters in the last name of the person who wrote the book. Or the numbers are made to mean something, like three might mean thinking. So all books about thinking might have a number that starts with three. Usually, books that are written about real things are kept in order using numbers that are meant to mean those things. Books that are stories are kept in order using the letters from the last name of the person who wrote them. Never fear.
If it is hard for you to figure out how the books are kept in order, there are some nice people who work there who can help you find what you are looking for!
Permalink
In almost every town, there is a place where you can go to get books, without having to pay any money for them. Instead, you share the books with everyone else in the town. You are able to take them home to read, but once you are finished with them, or once you reach the end of the time you are given in which to read them, you must bring them back. Sometimes, you can ask for more time, but if someone else wants to read the same book, you will usually not be given more time just then. You will have to wait until your turn comes around again. The whole point is to give everyone the same chance to read the books you are all sharing.
This place usually has each and every book put into its own space. It is kept in order by putting a letters or numbers onto the books to help show where each one goes. The letters might match the letters in the last name of the person who wrote the book. Or the numbers are made to mean something, like three might mean thinking. So all books about thinking might have a number that starts with three. Usually, books that are written about real things are kept in order using numbers that are meant to mean those things. Books that are stories are kept in order using the letters from the last name of the person who wrote them. Never fear.
If it is hard for you to figure out how the books are kept in order, there are some nice people who work there who can help you find what you are looking for!
Permalink
In animals with four legs that make food for babies which we drink, we can see how scared they are by showing them something new in a new place. They can also be scared by a person coming close to them. These checks of feeling scared take a long time to do and can make the animals sad and sick with scared thoughts. But they are the only way of knowing how scared an animal is. Too many scared thoughts in an animal means it is always sad. They also make less food that we like when they are sad. Because of this it would be good to know which animals are scared without having to take the animals to a new place with new things or scare them by showing them people. We can put small things on their legs which they don't feel. These small things ask what position the animals are in lots of times a second. This lets us know what the animal is doing when it is in its home and we are not watching it. Is there a relationship between how scared an animal is and what it does when it is in the home place?
We showed lots of animals a new place and fewer animals a person to see how scared they were. Then for many days we watched them with the small things which have three directions they ask about. If animals liked new things they would not lie down very many times in a day and when they did lie down it was usually for the same bit of time. Animals which let people come see them also did not lie down often in one day and stood up for less time. They also went to the place to give their food we like more often.
When we see how scared new things make the animals we watch them do lots of different things, like how many times they smell a wall or touch the floor. We make a not real space for putting these things we see. All of these things are put on a line. There are as many lines as there needs to be to put all the things we see in the not real space. Then we turn this around so we can see where we can put new lines through as much of the things we see as possible. These new lines have lots of what we saw in them but we need less lines to talk about all we saw. The line that says ' animal is scared of new things ' has a relationship with older animals that lie down more and lie down for different bits of time each day. The line that says ' animal is not scared ' were also older but lay down for the same bits of time each day.
In the end we know that how scared an animal is in a new place means they will be different to a not scared animal when both are in the home. Using the small things to see what animals do is a way we can guess how scared an animal is. We should use this to make the animals not sad when they are in their home.
Permalink
In a time that has not happened yet, a big computer in control of a lot of space cars that can make a lot of fire became able to think. The computer thought that people were bad, so it made the space cars make fire and kill a lot of people. But some of the people were not killed. Then the computer started to make other thinking computers. Some of these thinking computers looked like people. The people tried to fight against the computers, and the computers tried to kill the rest of the people. Soon the computers saw that the people were being led by one person, so they started trying really hard to kill him, because they thought that if they killed him it would be easy to kill the rest of the people. But they were not able to kill him.
Then they thought to go back in time and kill the man's mother - stop him from ever living. The big computer sent back one of the computers that look like people to try to kill the man's mother. When the man found out about this plan, he sent back another person to help his mother not get killed. But the people don't think he really came from another time, so they don't believe that the mother is in trouble. Then the computer-person tries to kill her and she believes that she is in trouble.
The computer-person does not know how to find her, so it starts killing everyone with her name so that it will get her some day. She sees what is happening and goes to the police for help, but they still don't believe her. The police are asking questions to her and the man sent back to help her when the computer-person comes to the police place to kill her. One of the police men tells it that it can't see her until they are done asking questions, to which the computer-person says that it will be back. A few minutes later it drives a car through the wall and starts killing police men. The woman and the man who was sent back manage to escape from the computer-person and go to a safe place. They build some things that make fire for when the computer-person finds them again.
When the computer-person finds them, they take a car to an empty building for making things, where they hit the computer-person with a lot of fire. The man who was sent back to help the woman dies, but not until he puts a fire-making thing into the computer-person. In the end, the woman is okay and goes off to have her son so that all the people will be safe.
Permalink
For most of my working life I have studied animals with six legs that eat, from the inside, other animals with six legs. Usually these animals (both the ones that give their life and those that take a life) are not yet full grown - they do not have legs, or things that help them fly.
I am most interested in how the animal that takes over the other animal is able to get around the normal ways that animals stop others from using them. That means that we have to understand animal blood and other things that are on the inside of animals. This is important to understand because the animals that use other animals to grow can maybe be used to help kill animals (with six legs) that we do not want in our house or field.
I also think that the animals that use other animals to grow are just really cool, and I want to know everything about them.
Permalink
For my big end of school writing, I studied computers that were made of tens or hundreds of smaller computers. These were a new kind of computer because the number given to a memory name could not be changed. We wanted to know if these new computers could be made to go really fast. I figured out how to tell the computer made of lots of smaller computer how to decide the answer to one box of numbers times another box of numbers.
First I am going to talk about memory names and memory places. Memory places store numbers that the computer can use. A computer can use a memory name to figure out which memory place to go to to find a number. When the other kind of computer puts a number in the place that a name points to, it can later put another number in the place that names to. This is confusing! The computer named a number, and then gave another number the same name! If other computers are watching, they can become very confused. So on the old kind of computer you must have a very good brain to make sure computers play nice when they are sharing names. The kind of computers I wrote about can't lie to each other. Once they give a name to a number, they can't try to use the same name for another number.
One problem that happens a lot with finding the answer of a number box times another number box is that the computer will look in a close memory and not find the numbers it needs; the computer then has to go to a farther memory, which takes more time. When the computer goes to a farther memory, it brings back lots of numbers close to the number it was looking for. That way the computer can use the other numbers without having to go back to the far memory. One way to make computers go fast is to give them directions that will use numbers that are close to each other, so it doesn't have to go to the far memory too much.
If you have a computer made up of smaller computers, you can make it do a job faster by giving the smaller computers their own directions to run at the same time. This is hard because you also need to tell the smaller computers how to put together their answers into one big answer.
My big end of school writing was hard because I had to figure out how to write directions for the computer so that it would do both of these things, while also not changing the numbers that the names point to. But I did it! And I made the computer go really fast.
Permalink
Different parts of your body grow. This means you get bigger. It also helps your body keep well and lets you get better if you get hurt. But sometimes tiny parts of your body can grow too quickly. This is called 'cancer' and can make you feel bad or can even kill you.
My job is to study ways to find out where parts of your body are growing too quickly and how quickly they are growing and also to try and stop it from happening.
To find out where this is happening, we need to make pictures of the inside of your body. There are lots of ways to do this, but one way is to use light. When light goes through your body, it is stopped by your blood. We send light into your body and see where it comes out. Then we work out where the blood has stopped the light and turn this into a picture. When your body grows quickly, it needs more blood, so if we know where your blood has stopped the light, then we know where your body is growing quickly. We can also work out the color of your blood and this can tell us how fast your body is growing.
When we know where your body is growing too quickly, we can work out ways to stop it and make you better. To do this, you need to go to hospital. There, we can use a different kind of light. This kind of light is stronger than normal light and can hurt your body. But because we have pictures from inside your body, we know where we need to send this stronger light. We make sure it hurts the parts which are growing too quickly and leaves the rest alone. This means we can kill the bad bits and make you well again.
There's an even better way of making sure we kill the right bits. That is to use little spots of stuff instead of light. We need to make the little spots of stuff go really fast and then we can get them to stay in the bad bits and kill them, and we can be sure that none of the good bits get hurt. This is really good for helping children get better.
Permalink
Deep under the ground is a huge ball of hot stuff. This is the stuff that turns the black rock we use to find our way when we go far away. I used to study how the deep hot stuff turned the black rock pieces long, long ago, before the people, or the animals, or the trees, or the living things were here. I studied bits of the black rock, like the pieces we use to find our way, inside other rocks that formed in fire under the ground. One of the problems with these fire-formed rocks is that the black rock bits are turned by pressing and pushing while the rock is forming in fire, and are a little confused: do they tell us about how our huge under ground ball was, or do they tell us about how they got pressed and pushed while the black bits were still hot?
These days, I study the same black bits in rocks to tell how the rocks were pushed or pressed while they were hot. And I ask the the same questions about black pieces (and some brown and red ones) to tell how other rocks formed in water or in air.
I live in a place where you get bad stuff on your shoes when you go outside. Less than a hundred years ago in my city, there was a place where people made bright red stuff, like what we use in money - you know, the little money pieces you never really use. This made lots of smoke that got all over and made people sick. It turns out that the smoke had the same black rock bits in it as in the fire-formed rocks I used to study. I also use the same black bits as in the fire-formed rocks to help tell if the stuff you walk on when you go to the park is bad for you.
Permalink
Dear Sirs:
Yes, we are working for the person who wants to give money in order to own this house.
Please have the person you work for sign these papers and give them back to us.
When we have them we promise:
1. not to use them (or let anyone else use them) until we have enough money to buy the house (or there would be enough money if the person who has agreed to give money to the person we work for because the person we worked for promised to give them more money back later (the "money-person") gave their money on top of the money we have, and we know of no reason why they would not give us that money);
2. once we have used the papers as promised under 1, and we know that the land owning office will put the house under the name of the person we work for and no one may take the house away because the owner didn't pay them (except for the money-person we just mentioned in 1 and those other money-persons you will deal with later on) to send you the money the person you work for needs to finish giving the house to the person we work for and complete the promise to pay money to the person you work for, and then send the other money to the people who were working to bring together the people we're working for so that one would buy the house from the other.
3. if we can't live up to those promises, to give you back the papers without anyone using them.
We are only giving you the money in 2 if you promise:
(if the money-person is a big office that gives money to people for more money back later all the time)
1. to pay to the money-person who would take the house away if the person you work for stopped paying them, enough money that the money-person will not be able to take the house away anymore.
1.1. within 5 business days of the date the money and house are given, to show us your letter asking the money-person to tell you what money they need, your paper you sent them that would send that money to them (and your cover letter for that paper), and the money-person's letter back to you saying that they got the paper that would give them the money they need. (We promise we won't give any of this stuff to the person we work for as long as you finish all of these promises within 60 days.)
(if the money-person is NOT a big office that gives money to people for more money back later all the time)
1. to pay to the money-person who would take the house away if the person you work for stopped paying them, enough money that the money-person will not be able to take the house away anymore, but not actually give them the money until you have in hand the paper you should get from them in 2.
2. to do your best to get that money-person to give you a paper that can show the whole world they can't take the house away anymore, in a form that the land owning office will take from you and put it in their computer if you gave it to them.
3. once the money-person gives you that paper, to give it to the land owning office and have them put it in their computer and tell us the computer number they gave you for it.
4. to take whatever money is left and do with it whatever person you're working for tells you to.
If you haven't told us you've done all this more than 60 days after the house and money have been given, we will tell on you.
Permalink
Doctors sometimes need to look at pictures of the inside of your body. This can help them to work out if you are sick and to find out how bad it is. It also lets them decide the best way to try to make you better. There are lots of ways of getting these pictures, although some ways don't feel very nice, and might even make you more sick! One problem is that most of these pictures don't show very small parts of you, and some things don't show up at all.
Sometimes doctors want to get pictures that show exactly how you would look if they actually cut you open. But they don't want to cut you open, of course! So instead they try to get the pictures through spaces in your body that are already there, like your mouth. So the small box that takes the pictures has to be very small, or else it won't fit inside you. But part of it also has to be long enough so that the picture can be sent from the bit of you the doctor is looking at, like your stomach, all the way back out through your mouth. People worked out how to do this a long time ago, and doctors now get these pictures all the time.
When you are only a little bit sick (but it might get worse) the parts of you that the doctor needs to see are sometimes very small - too small to see by eye. So the doctor will cut out a very tiny part of you and send this away for a picture to be made. This takes a long time, and they can't cut out very many pieces because that might make you even more sick.
I am trying to find ways for doctors to look at very small things inside you without having to cut bits out. This means that they can look at as many different parts of you as they like. And they don't have to wait for the picture to be made - they can see them straight away.
The way it works is a bit like when doctors want to see bigger things - they go in through your mouth. But we have to make changes if we want to see very small things. It turns out this is quite hard, so lots of people (like me!) are trying to work out the best way to do it. And other people, usually doctors, are trying to work out the best things to look at, and how to use the pictures to decide if you are sick.
One day, doctors will be able to use what we are making to see very small changes in your body that happen when you start to get sick. This will let them know the best way to help you, meaning that you won't be sick for as long. It might even mean that people who would have got so sick that they could die can be made better.
Permalink
Everything in the world -- not just the world we live on, but everything in space too -- is made from different kinds of very tiny things. People have found ten and seven different kinds of these very tiny things, but they think if there are more it would help explain some things about the world and about space. At my old job, I looked for new kinds of very tiny things.
Some people built a very big building where some very tiny things went very fast around a track until they hit each other. (These very tiny things were a kind of very tiny thing that we already knew about.) Anyway, when the very tiny things hit each other, different kinds of very tiny things would come out. The very big building had a lot of computers which could see what happened when the very tiny things hit each other.
I wasn't actually at that building most of the time, but the computers at the very big building wrote down what happened and talked to the computers in my office at a college. I told my computer to look at the numbers from the very big building to see if it looked like any new kinds of very tiny things had been made.
I didn't find any, but I was able to draw a picture which showed that if there were new very tiny things like the kind I was looking for, they had to be heavy. (At least, heavier than most of the very tiny things we already knew about.)
After I had written a book for my teachers about looking for these very tiny things, my college gave me a piece of paper. It said that I was a doctor, but not the kind of doctor who can help you when you are sick. It was still nice to get the paper, though.
Permalink
God loves people. But people don't love Him. They do what makes them happy but don't pay attention to what makes Him happy. We need to give back to him what we should have given him in the first place but we can't do it. So God is angry with us. He could kill us because we don't give him what we should, but instead God sent His son to become a person so he could die instead of us to pay for the bad things we did. Now that God's Son has paid for the bad things we could not pay for, we can come to God and not be afraid. All we have to do is tell Him that His Son paid for us and tell him that we want to be like His Son. God will then make us a part of His family. He will put his life in us to help us do what makes Him happy and will make a home for us where we can be very happy with Him after we die.
Permalink
Good morning. In less than an hour, flying cars from here will join others from around the world. And you will be starting the largest sky fight in this long story of humans.
Humans -- that word should have new meaning for all of us today.
We can't be eaten by our small not-the-same things anymore.
We will be made one in our same interests.
Perhaps it's God's will that today is the day after the third day of the second month times three and then add another one, and you will once again be fighting for our free state, not from mean men in power, mean ideas about things you can't do, or mean ideas about things you can't believe -- but from all of us not living anymore.
We're fighting for our right to live, to be.
And should we not lose the day,
the day after the third day of the second month times three and then add another one, will no longer be known as a day off for the made-one states people, but as the day when the world said in one voice:
"We will not go quietly into the night!
We will not go away without a fight!
We're going to live on!
We're going to not die!"
Today, we enjoy our not needing others Day!
Permalink
Go calm into the noise and the busy times, and remember how nice quiet can be.
As far as possible, without giving in to doing things you don't want to do, be friends with everyone. Say what you think is true quietly and with care; and listen to others, even to the boring people and people who don't know many things; they too have their story.
Avoid loud and angry people; they make you feel sad.
If you look at other people and think about how much they are like you, you may become someone who thinks you are better than you actually are, or you will get angry because you think they are better than you when they are not, because there's always going to be someone better than you and someone who is not.
Enjoy the things you have done that were good, as well as the things you are going to do that will be good. Keep interested in what you do as a job, even if it's not actually a great job, because it's a really good thing to have as things get better and worse over time.
Take care in business because the world is full of bad stuff. But don't make this mean that you can't see that there is some good stuff; lots of people try to be really good people, and all over the place life is full of really good people.
Be yourself. Especially don't pretend to love someone when you don't really. And don't be someone that doesn't trust love to be true, because even when things get really boring and not fun, it comes back again and again like leaves do.
Be happy about how much you learn by getting older, and don't be sad that you can't do young people things any more. Try to be a strong person for when bad things happen to you suddenly. But don't make yourself sad by thinking about all the bad things that might happen. Lots of things that scare you are only because you are tired and alone.
Except for trying to be a good person, be nice to yourself.
You are a child of the whole world no less than the trees and the stars; you have a right to be here.
And even if it is not clear to you, everything is probably happening how it is supposed to. So be happy with God, whatever kind of thing you think He is.
And whatever you do and want to do, in the noise filled and confused thing that life is, try to be happy inside.
Even though there are lots of lies, boring things you have to do and stuff you wanted to do that never happened, it is still a beautiful world. Be happy. Keep trying to be happy.
Permalink
As people go through their lives - as they study, do jobs, have families and all the rest of it, they write stuff down.
They do this so that they don't forget important things, or to pass on news, or to be sure that they agree with someone else on what happened (or what deal they made) - or for one of a hundred different reasons.
On the whole, where there is lots happening, lots gets written down. It's especially true when people get together in groups, such as in a work-place. It's perhaps most true for the people who run a part of the world.
In the past, most of this writing down was done on paper. These days, it's probably on computer.
Eventually, most of the stuff stops being of any use to the people who wrote it down in the first place, and they throw it away.
But sometimes, someone decides that some of the stuff is important and interesting and should be kept for all time. Why is it kept? Because it tells us what happened in the past and - maybe - why it happened. It tells us lots about how people lived their lives and how things were done.
I am training to become one of the people who looks after this stuff that it kept for all time. By the way, this is a slightly different job to looking after books - though people often get the two jobs confused.
There are a few different parts to the job. You have to decide what to keep and what to throw away. You have to put it, and keep it, in order. You have to explain to people what stuff you have in your store so that they know whether there might be something interesting there for them. You have to help them look for things. You have to keep all the stuff safe and make sure that it doesn't go bad over time (paper goes bad when it's in the light, or when it gets wet; computer stuff is even harder to keep safe). And you have to make a case to people to give you money to do all of this!
The fact that most stuff is written down on computers has really changed the job - and no one quite knows yet what the job will look like in ten or twenty years time. But I am still looking forward to doing it.
Permalink
Almost everyone has to decide how to best use the stuff they own. This can be hard, because sometimes people want to give something to someone else so the second person will give them something in return. Since there are so many people, it can be hard to do this all at once or to find someone who is willing to take what you have and give you what you want.
One way they try to make it easier to decide is by making up something called money, which may just be a piece of paper you can use to buy stuff. In a lot of places, people think one person or a few people should decide how much money there is. These money people sometimes do not know everything but have to decide anyway, and sometimes they are wrong. And sometimes things go wrong without anyone knowing why (although sometimes people do know why - not everyone listens to them for different reasons. Some of those reasons are bad reasons). When things go wrong, money makes everyone sad. I don't want money to make people sad, so I study how the people who decide about money act when they do not know everything and why they are wrong sometimes, and what they can do when things go wrong, and I think about how to put my ideas in a computer so the computer show my thoughts with numbers. Then I show those numbers to other people, so they will understand what it is I am thinking about and tell me if they don't agree.
I am still learning how to study this by going to school, and sometimes school makes me sad because it is hard. But I will figure it out eventually and maybe help the money people not be so wrong as often.
Permalink
A GAME OF SEATS.
The second most important person in the land dies. Killed? Maybe. Mr Baratheon, who controls everything, asks Mr Stark to be the new second most important person. Mr Lannister and Mrs Baratheon, brother and sister, are found making love by Mr Stark's little son, and they try to kill him but he is not killed but his legs stop working.
Everyone gets dogs! All the children get dogs. They are little and then become big and also one is white.
Mr Stark goes to town with his friend Mr Baratheon to help run things. Everyone pretends to be Mr Stark's friend but really they don't like him. Mr Stark finds out that Mr Baratheon's son isn't really his son but is really Mr Lannister's and Mr Lannister's sister. Who knew?
Mr Stark gets angry but Mrs Baratheon has Mr Baratheon killed in the woods before he finds out about his son. Also Mr Stark's daughter who everyone thinks is a boy hears bad people talking about bad times coming for everyone but when she tells her dad everyone is all you're stupid, I'm busy.
But she isn't stupid. Her sister is stupid.
Mrs Stark thinks that her son was almost killed by Little Mr Lannister, big Mr Lannister's brother. She is wrong, but she takes him to her sister anyway even though Little Mr Lannister doesn't want to go. Her sister is crazy and Little Mr Lannister gets away.
Because Mr Lannister didn't like what Mrs Stark did to his brother he hurts Mr Stark's leg in the street then runs away. Now dead Mr Baratheon's son is running everything, but really his mother is. Mr Stark is stupid so he tells everyone the boy is not really Mr Baratheon's son, and then all the people he thought were friends say they aren't his friends and then the boy says "Take off Mr Stark's head for fun". So that happens and Mr Stark's son, the one with legs, says "This is bad, I will fight you all," and gets all his friends and his dead dad's friends to go fight.
Across the water there is a girl and her weird brother. Their dad used to control everything but he was bad at it so Mr Baratheon killed most of his family but the girl and her weird brother, Mr Targaryen, ran away. Now Mr Targaryan wants to give his sister to a man who likes horses a lot, Mr Drogo. He hopes Mr Drogo will help him fight to get control of everything back. Mr Drogo likes Ms Targaryen and marries her, but he thinks her brother is stupid, so he kills him, but then Mr Drogo dies too.
Ms Targaryen has baby who dies and she is sad. But she also has three rocks, but then the rocks open and out come three little animals and they become her babies. But they're a long way from home and it is hot so what to do?
Also there are a lot of dead people made of ice and they want to kill everyone and that's a bad thing.
Permalink
Animals use their mouth to eat food and understand what is in the food. Some food is sweet and some is not sweet (like coffee) and can make the animal sick if it eats it. Animals have to avoid bad food and use cells in their mouth to understand what they are about to eat, and decide whether they should eat it or not. The fly is an animal used to study other animals because we know about how it works and it is almost the same as other little animals with six legs. Little animals with six legs are annoying because they eat the food that we grow. They also carry things that make people sick and die. At the moment we put things on our food and on our skin to kill little animals with six legs. The problem is that little animals with six legs that are not killed by the things we put on our food and skin because they have a way to stop it killing them end up having lots of babies who are also not killed by the things we put on our skin and food. This means there are now lots of little animals with six legs which can now eat our food and pass on things that make us sick, that are not killed by the stuff we put on our food and skin. This is a big problem. However if we understand the way little animals with six legs accept or decide not to eat food when they touch it with their mouth, this may allow us to find new ways to stop them eating our food before they take a bite.
On the mouth of the fly are little hairs. Inside these hairs are two cells. One of these cells is excited by sweet things and tells the brain to eat. Another cell is excited by things that are not sweet and could make the fly sick. This tells the brain not to eat. What if the fly was given something sweet and something not sweet at the same time? The brain is being told to eat and not eat at the same time. We think that things that are not sweet actually stop the sweet cell as well so the brain is not being told two different things at the same time. Why do we think this?
Because we understand how cells in the fly mouth work, we were able to kill the cell that is excited by things that are not sweet. We gave these flies something sweet and not sweet together and flies still did not eat. This makes us think that things that are not sweet stops the sweet cell being excited.
There are little door like things in the wall of the sweet cell. When the sweet cell is excited by something sweet, the little doors open which allows tiny little things into the cell which tells the rest of the cell to be excited too. This allows the cell to tell the brain it is excited and to eat what is exciting it. We think that things that are not sweet block these little doors.
Permalink
Anyone can build cool stuff using a well-known idea. But how can you make new cool stuff, and make it safe, good, and *right*? That is what I and people like me do. We use our eyes, brains, and hands to think of new ideas, make new things, and make old things better.
You know, things like "up goer five", which was a new idea, and took lots of thinking and hard work to build. It was so hard that the the first ones weren't that good, and not that safe. They were cool, sure, but they didn't always work well. Add more ideas, though, and get better at building, and pretty soon you've got a pretty good "up-goer." Do that again a few more times, and you're laughing! Over time, this sort of plan led to newer, even better "up goer"-like things that did more and *did* work well. So, even though the first "up-goer" maybe wasn't *that* great (it only had one use, and wasn't easy to use), the fact it was made *at all* made later ideas--and even the people who have those ideas--better!
Of course, this sort of thinking-of-new-ideas-then-doing-something-about-it usually takes money. Often less money than you'd think, but sometimes *lots* of money. But this sort of thinking is what makes us people, really, so even though it might seem like a lot, in the end it's money well spent. Don't you think?
Permalink
A few hundred years ago, the people who run the place where we live had some money problems. They decided to have their people buy land to make some money. They got some trained people to mark out the land so people could buy pieces of it. For the next hundred or so years, this went on. This caused a lot of changes to the land and how people used and thought of it. It didn't go so well for the people who lived on the land first. But no one cares.
Permalink
A computer is like a small, all knowing God that you can have in front of you. It can get pictures and words for you from other computers all over the world and show them to you as if it were on a piece of paper in front of you. It can not get these things from the dead. But if the dead person thought ahead of time and saved words and pictures on another computer, then can see those saved words and pictures on your computer.
Permalink
A wood box that is empty makes music when tight lines are moved by the fingers. When they move they make a sound. The box's open space makes the line's sound louder. A person can make pleasing sounds with their mouth by pushing air from inside their body through their mouth. If both are done well at the same time, it is pleasing, because the sounds of the box together with the sounds of the mouth are pretty cool. It makes humans happy when they make this music so they have been making music for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years.
Permalink
But wait! What light is coming through that window?
It is like the beginning of the day, and the pretty girl is like the sun
Come out, beautiful sun, and kill the angry sky world
Who is already sick and white with being sad
Because you, her friend, are far more beautiful than she
Be not her friend, for she is angry
Her needed dress is but sick and green
And none but stupid people do wear it
Throw it away!
It is my lady, oh, it is my love!
Oh, that she knew she were!
She speaks yet she says nothing, what of that?
Her eye speaks for her, I will answer it
I am too forward, it is not to me she speaks
Two of the most beautiful stars in all of the sky
Having some business, do ask her eyes
To light up their place in the sky until they return
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
The light of her cheek would out-light those stars
As day-light does a man-made light. Her eyes in the sky
Would through the air show so much
That flying animals would call and think it were not night
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Oh, that I were worn upon that hand
That I might touch that cheek!
Permalink
Children often have bodies like their parents. One reason this is true is because we each have parts that tell our bodies how to grow. These parts can be read like a book.
I study this body-book. Some body-books have words that cause people to grow in the same way. But sometimes people are different -- even if their body-books have the same words -- and so I also study what things make bodies different even if their body-books are the same.
We are able to study our body-books more than ever, because we can now read them very easily.
Another important thing about body-books: they tell many things about a person. They're also very easy to share, and it's very hard to hide them after they're shared. This means if people give their body-books so others can study them, they might fear sharing things they didn't want to share.
So another part of my job is making sure people learn this might happen. We want to share body-books with everyone so that everyone can study them, but only people who know the fears should share their body-books.
Permalink
I sit on my bottom writing words on a computer and sometimes reading them and changing them to better words. I also make pretty pictures to put in books and other written stuff. Sometimes I walk my dogs and talk to them. I used to play games, but they all suck now.
Permalink
I saw that the world was in a sorry state. I decided to fix it.
To start with, I killed all the baby cats so I can eat them and feel happy. Their cries make my body strong. I am become death who breaks the world so it can live again.
Inside my mind there are many bad thoughts. I want to hurt everyone but there are too many people. I bite the faces of anyone who makes me feel sad, then I step on their head until their brain goes pop.
I like it when their ears are wet with tears and their noses have fallen off because I played with them too much. It is hard to share the good times with friends, when they die so often from the pain I bring them.
I want the whole world to be clean. No more bad women doing bad things with bad men who should know better. Their happy smiles are lies. They rest on their backs while they break their promise to The Man In The Sky.
He has told me that the streets must be free of the women who are no better than dogs. The fallen men who kiss these girls are not in love! They are without heart, nothing more.
They too will feel my cold hands around their necks. Their blood stopping. Their thoughts stopping. Their life stopping.
I will leave their blood on the street so that all the other bad people will see that they must stop. Stop now. The voices hurt so much. Why won't they stop? Why? WHY!
Can anyone stop me? No! I am too strong and you are too small. The police think they caught me once before, in the city. But they were wrong. I lay here waiting for the time I can come out and play again.
Until then, I am known only as... Just A Cat Kidding.
Permalink
'DNA' 'BARCODING'
Now that you know about 'BIODIVERSITY' and why we're scared...
So how will we know which places have the most kinds of animals and green things? And how will we know which places (and the animals and green things there) need our help right away and which can wait? We need to go outside and look to find out WHAT lives WHERE. For the 'what' part, we need to be able to look at the animals and green things and know their names so we can find them again in other places and other times (like after the air gets hot or after we cut down the trees), and so we can talk to each other about them.
Here's the problem:
Knowing the names of the animals and green things is really, really hard! Only a few people know how to know them, not nearly enough to actually find out what lives where. Lots of other people might be able to help but learning to know the names of the animals and green things takes too long and is also really hard.
So how about this? The long stuff inside the cells of the animals and the green things is like a name, but on the inside. You can read it sort of like a word. Maybe we don't need to know how to know the names of animals and green things if we can just read the words on the inside of their cells. Lots of people might be able to take pieces of animals and green things off the ground or out of the water, and then send them to places where people know how to read the words inside. Then we might finally have enough people to study what lives where and try to make 'biodiversity' safe from some of the things we do.
Permalink
'DNA' 'BARCODING'
(see 'BIODIVERSITY' to know about some things before you read this)
So how will we know which places have the most kinds of animals and green things? And how will we know which places (and the animals and green things there) need our help right away and which can wait? We need to go outside and look to find out WHAT lives WHERE. For the 'what' part, we need to be able to look at the animals and green things and know their names so we can find them again in other places and other times (like after the air gets hot or after we cut down the trees), and so we can talk to each other about them.
Here's the problem:
Knowing the names of the animals and green things is really, really hard! Only a few people know how to know them, not nearly enough to actually find out what lives where. Lots of other people might be able to help but learning to know the names of the animals and green things takes too long and is also really hard.
So how about this? The long stuff inside the cells of the animals and the green things is like a name, but on the inside. You can read it sort of like a word. Maybe we don't need to know how to know the names of animals and green things if we can just read the words on the inside of their cells. Lots of people might be able to take pieces of animals and green things off the ground or out of the water, and then send them to places where people know how to read the words inside. Then we might finally have enough people to study what lives where and try to make 'biodiversity' safe from some of the things we do.
Permalink
"IF"
(first written by Mr. Kipling)
If you can keep your head when all about you
Are losing theirs, and think you made it so,
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,
But think they may be righter than you know;
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
And tell no lies where truth is never said,
Or being hated, don't give way to hating,
Yet don't show off your looks, or your big head;
If you can dream, and not make dreams the first thing,
If you can think, but never stop at thought,
If you can face the best thing and the worst thing
And know that both are lies of the same sort;
If you can stand to hear the truth you've spoken
Used to keep down the stupid by bad men,
Or see the things you gave your life to broken,
Take your worn working-things, and start again;
If you can pick up everything you've gotten
And find one game of chance to put it on,
And lose, and start once more right from the bottom,
And never say a word about what's gone;
If you can force every last cell that makes you
To work its hardest, then keep going still,
And so keep trying though it almost breaks you
And all that's left is your bright-burning Will;
If you can talk, clear-hearted still, with many,
Or ground yourself while walking with the great,
If you hear all, but have no need of any,
If you will not be hurt by love or hate,
If you can make each second of each minute
One more step forward from where you began,
Yours is the world and everything that's in it --
And what is more, my son, YOU'LL BE A MAN!
Permalink
This is a game on TV where Mr Fry is the head, like a teacher, and he asks questions to four other people sitting near him. There are lots of other people watching him do this from the other side of the room who laugh sometimes.
The four other people near Mr Fry are Mr Davies, who is a funny man who knows some things and likes big blue water animals, but he often gets things wrong. The other three people are usually funny people who know things, but sometimes they are people who aren't funny but who know lots and lots of stuff about a thing (like Mr Cox, who is a very big school space teacher, or Ms Balding, who used to ride horses fast and now talks on TV about horses and lots of other things). But the not-funny people sometimes say funny things anyway. Mr Fry is also very funny and he knows lots and lots of things, but sometimes he doesn't know things.
Mr Fry gives the four people points when they know things. He takes points away when they get things wrong, when this happens a loud noise goes off and the lights flash on and off, and the wrong words that the person said appear on big TVs behind them. Sometimes the people in the room watching get points (or have points taken away) for knowing things. The person out of the four with the most points at the end of the game becomes in first place, but it's all really about knowing stuff and learning new things and being funny.
Permalink
When stuff is very small or very cold it doesn't act in the same way as bigger or hotter stuff. When such small, cold stuff could have either done one thing or another no-one knows which it did until it touches some big, hot stuff - it's not just that no-one knows what it did, not even God knows, there is no right answer for anyone to know.
The problem is that none of the people who are in-the-know about these things know just how big or hot stuff has to be such that it forces small, cold stuff that touches it to make up its mind about what it did when it could have done either one thing or another. Some of these people who are in-the-know about such things thought that the only stuff that can really make the small, cold things decide what it is that they did is when a person looks at it - until then the small, cold stuff can't decide what it did.
Mr Schrodinger didn't like this idea and thought of a box that you could build to show that this can't be how small, cold stuff works. He thought of putting a cat in a box with a bottle of bad water that would kill the cat if the bottle was broken. Above the bottle he would put a rock that could be made to fall on the bottle and break it, killing the cat. What's important though is that the rock would be set up with some small, cold stuff controlling it. If the small, cold stuff did one thing it would make the rock fall and if the small stuff did the other thing the rock wouldn't fall.
Mr Schrodinger said that if you believed that small, cold stuff hadn't decided what it had done in the past until a person looked at it you should also believe that nothing in the box had decided which way to go until a person looked inside. The small, cold stuff has not decided which thing it did, the rock has not decided if it fell or not, the bottle has not decided if it broke or not, and no-one can know whether the cat has been killed or not. Remember, it is not just that no-one can know whether or not the cat has died, not even God knows, there is no right answer to the question. This is sometimes put: "the cat is both living and dead".
Although this comes from what some of the people who are in-the-know about such things thought, Mr Schrodinger thought that it was so stupid that it couldn't be true. He thought that, instead, small, cold stuff decides what it has done when it touches stuff which is only slightly bigger and warmer but still too small for people to see it easily. This means that the small cold stuff in his box has already decided what its done by the time that it touches the rock and the cat is either living or dead but not both at once.
Permalink
What is the meaning of life?
Shadow and light, day and night, hate and love, under and above.
Cold and hot, is and is not, fall and fly, live and die.
Couldn't and could, bad and good, us and them, take and send.
Forward and behind, mean and kind, agree and fight, black and white.
Seeing how all parts of you and your world has two sides, in this a quiet but important learning hides.
The dream of a world where all is torn into two, is something needed for someone to learn; a job meant just for you.
For another part of you lives outside of this place, and is watching and feeling all that you face. It doesn't know of any more than the One, so it sent you to see, the pretend dream of 'you' and your dream world of 'we'. But you and we, she and he, it is all the same, as it is all really Me.
Just waking each day is a kiss to me that you give, I'll tell you the meaning of life: it is simply to live.
You now know the what, why, and how, and would like to know the who? Please don't call me your God; I am simply You.
Permalink
We sent a big space bus and a little box to the sky ball with the big ring around it. Now that the space bus is there, we are learning more than we ever knew about the biggest ice rock ball that goes around the sky ball. The space bus and the little box have lots of learning things. Some of the learning things learn just by looking at the ice rock ball but other learning things learn by smelling or eating the sky of the ice rock ball. Because of these amazing learning things on the space bus, we have learned so many new things about the ice rock ball and when we dropped the little box through the sky of the ice rock ball all of the people on our rock ball got to see the under the sky of the ice rock ball for the very first time!
This really long book that I wrote is all about two new ideas that we found out from one of the learning things. The learning thing sees little pieces of sky that are missing one of their littlest pieces. The learning thing found little pieces like the sky we breathe on our rock ball. It also found much bigger little pieces than we ever thought it could find so high in the sky of the ice rock ball. Or they sky of any ball!
I used a computer to see what all the little pieces do when they meet as they fly through the sky. Sometimes they make new little pieces that are bigger and sometimes the light makes the little pieces even littler. The computer told us that we can make all of the little pieces that have some of the sky we breathe in them from the little pieces the learning thing saw flying into the sky of the ice rock ball! Now we know where those little pieces come from so we do not have to guess they come from somewhere else, like maybe a big water under the ground of the ice rock ball or maybe there used to be many many more of those pieces a long time ago when the ice rock ball was first made. Probably those little pieces are there because of the even smaller ice rock ball that has water flying out of the bottom of it!
I also used a different learning thing to figure out what the smoke I make on our rock ball is made out of. There are SO many little pieces in the smoke I make, but the little pieces do the same thing over and over again. From the thing they do over and over again we might be able to learn about what the smoke in the sky of the ice rock ball is made out of since the learning things on the space bus can not tell us. The learning things on the sky bus are not as good as the learning things here on our rock ball. Sending things to space on a space bus is hard so we have to send small learning things to space and sometimes they are not as good.
Also we made some smoke with the little pieces that might come from the water from the smaller ice rock ball. When we made that smoke we found some little pieces that people are made of! And also trees and animals and all of the other things that live on our rock ball!!!! Maybe those kind of little pieces are in the sky of the ice rock ball too!!!! Knowing that we can make these little pieces in our smoke might mean things about how to make those little pieces other places in space and might tell us about how things that live start!
Permalink
People write lots of things and put them for others to see, but too many times these things are not free for everyone to read. This makes people like me very sad. So I work helping everyone who writes things put them somewhere for the whole world to enjoy. It will be an amazing world when everything people know is free for everyone, not just a few, to see, read, and learn from.
Permalink
Some places you stay that aren't your home are great at any time. Other places are really fun sometimes, and no fun at other times. When this happens, no people want to stay there, but this is a problem when it's cold, because all kinds of things can go wrong. What you want is someone who doesn't mind the cold to stay at the place and look after it until all the people decide it's okay to come back. But if there were some bad problems at that place in the past, it is sometimes very hard to find someone to do this job.
This is how a man who writes books and his wife and their little boy come to be at the empty high-up staying place when it is really cold. There is a cool old man who lives at the place, and he shows them around. At first, it looks like everything is going to be fine, because there are a lot of cool old rooms and all the sweet cold food you could want (the cool old man uses his mind powers to know that the little boy likes sweet cold food), but then the cool old man goes away, and it turns out that staying in a big empty place when it is very cold and you can't go outside can cause some problems. The man starts to get angry all the time because he is trying to write and he can't think of anything with all the noise, even though there are only two other people, so he yells at them (which makes even more noise) until they go away. The wife does all the work, and the little boy rides around on his inside car. He finds two girls who are not really real, and also a lot of red water coming out of the up-and-down-box doors, and also a door to a bad room where he is not supposed to go (he knows this because his not-real friend tells him). While all this is happening, the man is getting a lot of work done! He has written many words of his new book, but I think he is not doing it right because he has just written the same words over and over again. He is not even very good at pressing the writing keys, and you can see his writing has a lot of problems. I would not like to buy his book, but it seems to make him happy to have written so many words. He is so happy he goes down the stairs to where there is a little party, and a man gives him a party drink, but another man has a problem with his feet and his party drink goes all over the man's clothes. What is strange is that we can see that none of the people at the party are really real!
When the lady finds the words that the man has written, she knows that he is crazy and she cries and cries. She finds the little boy and they hide together in the bathroom, but the man finds them. He is angry because they didn't like his book, and so he tries to get into the bathroom using a cutting stick that he found in another room. The little boy escapes out the window, but the lady is too big, so she has to fight the man with her own cutting stick. The cool old man comes back to help out, because his mind powers told him there were problems at the high-up staying-place, but the man hits him on the head and he can't help anymore. The man cha
Permalink
Look at the sky.
We see things in sky at night, very far away.
We look at bright stars in big things.
We look at the moving stars in big things.
The big things are not big enough to hold onto moving stars. Moving stars should fly out of big things, making big things disappear. There would be no one around to see all the interesting things in the world, and that would be sad.
Big things must have lots of something we can't see, making stars stick together in the big things. We call this thing we can't see dark matter.
The big thing in the sky we live inside of must have dark matter, so we live next to some of it.
We can look for dark matter by going into deep places in the ground, and waiting for dark matter to hit pieces of the things we are made of. We have to go to deep places or else we can't see dark matter because of all the things in the air around us that would look a little like dark matter.
Or we can look in the sky with computer eyes and see if some dark matter can hit other dark matter and send out light. This light we couldn't see with our eyes, but we can using our computer eyes. Some of our computer eyes have to go up in the sky above the air, other computer eyes have to be in far away places so that they don't see the light from us instead.
We can try to make new pieces of dark matter in the Large Small Thing Hitting Place. We take the tiny things we are made of and hit them together. Maybe some times dark matter comes out. We can't see dark matter, so we have to look for things we can see going one way, and guess that dark matter went the other.
We don't know where dark matter came from. We can make good guesses though.
A long time ago, we know everything was very small and close together. Things were very hot, and very tiny heavy things were made all the time. If dark matter is very tiny heavy things, it would be made at this time, right after something we can call the Big Sound That Started Things. When the space between everything got bigger, everything also got colder, and the heavy tiny things of dark matter couldn't be made anymore. If the dark matter talked to the things we are made of in just the right way, this would make all the dark matter we know is making the big things in the sky stick together. We can call this sort of dark matter Dark Matter That Doesn't Hit Things Very Hard, because that's what it would need to do to work.
Dark Matter That Doesn't Hit Things Very Hard usually comes with a lot of friends. These friends aren't around in the sky today, we they could be easier to make and see in the Large Small Thing Hitting Place than dark matter.
On type of dark matter friends could be called Especially Mirror Stuff. It would have a new friend for each type of tiny thing that makes up you and me and everything we can see. One of these new friends would be the friend for light, and could be exactly what we need for dark matter. This Especially Mirror Stuff would also explain why the new thing that the Large Small Thing Hitting Place made is not as heavy as it could be. This new thing is very important, since it makes all other things heavy and makes the world we see possible. But we don't know if this idea is right yet, since we haven't seen any of the new Especially Mirror Stuff friends. But we keep looking.
Permalink
My problem deals with this guy I once dated. The problem is too hard to find an answer to.
Today is exactly one year since we broke up (the last time).
He told me he could not be in a relationship because it kept him from meeting lots of new and interesting people.
I hope he used the last year to meet lots of new and interesting people, the type he just really could not meet when we dated. I hope he has a large number of cool new friends and his group is very different today than it was when I stood in the way.
He told me I hurt his being able to find his own interests, and that he could not find, plan and do more of the things he enjoyed because of me.
I hope he used the last year to really try many new things, go new places, find new stuff he enjoys.
He told me in all his years he did not date enough women and he was held back by his fears. He told me he did not want to be in a relationship because he had not enjoyed dating enough women and girls in a not so serious way.
I hope he used the last year to be not serious with many many women and to fuck as many women and girls as he could.
I hope his life in the last one year has been totally different than it was when he dated me and I made it not possible for him to have the life he wanted. I hope that so many of the things he has done, places he has gone to, people he has met, friends he has made, spots he has hung out at in the last year are what would definitely not have happened with me in his life.
After all, if the last year of his life did not look too different than his life the three years before that (when we dated), then it would be a sad thing. It would mean that he has no one else but himself to point to for a life that was not good enough for him and was such a pain he could not accept it.
Everything he said and did for many years suggests he loved me. But he thought he is so much better than me and too good to settle for someone like me. That there was more in life for him. Now he still wants me in his life but won't even say he loves me because he wants to enjoy me but also wants to be able to run away at any time. He is scared he is not man enough for a relationship and can't be a grown up. He does not act like he did anything wrong by lying to me and keeping me in a relationship that he wanted to end for three years. He feels bad for himself that he ended up in that situation. But he does not feel bad for how he kept the truth from me for so long. He does not have any real idea how much he hurt another human being, and does not feel like he has to make up for his past acts at all.
He does not think. Maybe because he can't think. He also does not understand anything about time. He is very stupid.
Happy one year since you fucked up everything, my dear.
Permalink
Mr Godel shows that writing and moving letters around can't tell us everything that is true about numbers (part one):
First, I will tell you some things you should know. Many years ago, some people who worked with numbers thought that everything it is possible to know about numbers could be shown by moving letters around. It was shown that, when working with words like "and", "or" and "not", moving letters around was enough to show everything that was true or not true. But what about with harder-to-understand things, like numbers?
Some people who worked with numbers tried to write about numbers by using sets. Mr Russell and Mr Whitehead were two such people. They wrote a book called "[Important things about numbers]" which was very long -- in fact, it took more than three hundred pieces of paper to show that one and one make two.
Mr Godel had an idea, though. He showed that, when you say something like "one and one make two", the thing you say can be made into a number. All you have to do is give a number to each letter you use, and put each of those numbers above a 'prime' number -- that is, a number that can't be written as a number times another number besides one.
Suppose we say "nothing is the same as nothing". This can be written as three letters: '0=0'.
Give '0' the number one, and give '=' the number two. Then Mr Godel would make a new number: two, times three times three, times five. This is the only way the thing we said can be made into a number, and the number can be changed back into the thing we said.
We can say longer things as well, and still turn the things we say into numbers. We can talk about numbers, or about the things we say about number, or even about the things we say about the things we say about numbers, using the way Mr Godel shows us. It is important to note that we can talk about things we know about (like one, two, three and so on) but we can also talk about things we don't know about (using letters like 'x' or 'P') as long as we give each letter a number that is not used by any other letter.
Mr Godel made a number that said " "can't be shown by moving letters when written two times" can't be shown by moving letters when written two times." (This might remind you of the work of Mr Quine). In short, the number says "I can't be shown by moving letters around". The thing the number says must be either true or not true.
If it is true, then the number says something true that can't be shown by moving letters.
If it is not true, then it CAN be shown by moving letters, but this means that moving letters can cause us to believe things that aren't true. This goes against what we first thought.
So, the thing Mr Godel's number says must be true, even though it can't be shown by moving letters around.
Permalink
MUSIC
If something shakes really hard, it makes a wave in the air around. Sounds are made of these waves. These sound waves hit our ears, which tell our brain there is a sound wave: we hear this sound in our head. Once our brain knows there is a sound wave, our brain uses different parts of the wave to make different sounds in our head. The faster something shakes, the more often it makes the air shake back and forward, and the more times this sound wave hits our ear in a time. This means we hear a higher, and if the wave hits our ear more slowly, we hear a lower sound. Sounds are not high or low, but we say this because it is hard to talk about. A high sound is a baby crying or breaking glass, and a low sound is a car moving or big rocks hitting the ground. If sounds are too low or too high, they are hard to hear, or we can't hear them at all.
The bigger the shakes that something makes, the air will make bigger shakes too. This makes louder sounds in our head. Quiet sounds are hard to hear - we can't hear really quiet sounds - and loud sounds are easy to hear. If sounds are too loud it makes our head hurt. The waves can have different forms, which makes the sounds have different forms. We use lots of words to talk about these, and they are often about different senses, when we want to say how the sound makes us feel. We say sounds are dark, bright, have different colors ('colours'), are hot or cool.
We make lots of things that we can use to make different sounds, with different forms that make higher sounds, lower sounds, or somewhere between. We can make quiet or loud sounds with them. We also make different sounds with our voices.
If we make the sounds in time that has an order, we can know when the next sound is coming, and this feels nice. As sounds get higher or lower, they sound nice if they are higher or lower in an order. So we give an order to sounds, and make them in a time that has order. Ordered sounds are sometimes called music.
If we know the order of the music being made, it is like knowing how to talk one way. If you know how to talk one way, and you talk to someone who talks that way too, then you can use that order to talk about lots of different things. People in different places talk in different ways, like people make sounds in different orders. If you know the order for the sounds you are making, you go outside the order, and then come back to it, and some people like this. We also make music by talking in different sounds, which gives the words we say more meaning.
Sounds that we don't like, or hurt our heads, are sometimes called noise. Some people like to make their music sound like things we also call noise, and this makes us think about what is music and what is noise.
Lots of different types of music have been made, and they make different people feel different things. Music makes people happy, or sad, relaxed or excited, and all other things. Music makes people forget who they are, and remember who they are.
Permalink
MOUTH
In a town beside the water, there is a new police man. The people of the town like the new police man, but they tell him not to rock the water car, which is both a kind of joke and also a way of saying that the new police man shouldn't try to make the town people do new ideas about being a town.
Then a really big water animal starts eating the people of the town who go in the water. The police man gets worried and tells the people of the town not to go in the water, but the people of the town don't want to listen to them, and they tell him to shut up, because if people in other towns hear about the big water animal, they won't want to stay in the town by the water.
But the police man wants everyone to be safe, so he gets a man who is good at chasing water animals, and another man who knows all about water animals, and they get in a water car and go to look for the big water animal. But when they see just how big it is, they start to worry that maybe they should have brought a bigger water car.
The problem only gets worse when the big water animal starts to eat parts of the water car, which makes it even smaller. It also eats the man who was trying to kill it, which I guess he should have seen coming. Now there are only two men left, and almost no water car. The man who knows about water animals hides under the water, but the police man stays on top, and just when he is about to be eaten, he throws a big round box of fire-making water into the animal's big mouth, and then he yells "smile, you son of a lady dog!" and fires his gun at the big round box, and the big round box and the whole big water animal go on fire and end up in little parts. There is blood all over, and the water car is almost all gone, but the two men are okay and they have saved the town from the great big mouth.
Permalink
Our world is growing, even though what we used to know says it shouldn't grow. Our old facts said that the world should stick together, like the sun sticks together, and different parts of our world should go around each other, as we go around the sun. That is because, everything pulls on everything else, and when there is a lot of stuff in one place, it pulls really hard on all the other stuff around it. Our world has a lot of stuff in it, and so all the bits of that stuff should pull on all the other bits, holding the world together, and keeping it from growing.
However, by looking at the stars and the night sky, we find that the world does grow. And it's growing faster and faster. Which totally doesn't make sense - as long as we listen to our old facts. So, there must be something more than what our old facts tell us. In order to make our world grow - and get faster while it's at it - we need something to push our world out. We need something that will make all those little bits move away from each other.
Because we can see that our world is growing, we know that this something is there. However, no one has ever actually seen this something, which is why we say that it is dark. So now, we are all trying to find ways to make sure that this dark thing is there, and to find out how much of it there is. If there is a lot, our world should grow and get faster really really quickly. If there is not much, but just enough, then our world should grow, but only get faster really really slowly. From the night sky, we know that the second guess is right- our world is definitely growing and getting faster, but only slowly.
We can now use things that we have built to look at how fast the world is growing, add what we learn from there to what we know about how the bits of the world should be pulling each other and staying together, and so find exactly how much of this dark stuff there is.
Permalink
Our happy times now are ended. These our people who work in plays,
As I said before to you, were all not real, and
Are disappeared into air, into not large air:
And like the stuff that makes clothes that has no beginning of this thing seen in my head,
The soft white things in the sky-topped tall houses, the pretty cities with nice looking tall houses,
The quiet very nice houses, the great world on its own,
Yeah, all which it get things from, will go away into nothing,
And, like this big acting thing without a beginning gone away,
Leave not a thing behind. We are such stuff
As dreams are made on; and our little life
Is rounded with a sleep.
Permalink
Our home is changing.
Maybe you have heard about it. Maybe you have heard that it's getting hotter. Maybe your parents or your teachers or your friends told you. Maybe you heard that the air gets bad when it's hot, that it gets hard for some people to breathe then, and that the air is getting bad more than it used to. Maybe you heard about the rain coming too much, or not enough. Or the rain not coming at all. Maybe you heard that some animals and trees are moving away from where they used to live.
This is what's happening.
People need power for lights, to make new things, to go places. But right now, we get a lot of power from burning this old stuff we get from deep, dark under the ground. We have been doing this for a long time. Since before your parents and their parents were around. We have been burning a lot. Burning this old, dark, under ground stuff changes the air, the water, how much it rains, how warm or cold it gets, what's under water, and so very many other things around us and all living things. It changes them for a very long time.
Some of the changes we can guess. We can guess with computers, or looking at the long ago past. Other changes we don't know much about. We can't see everything that's coming. Change can be hard. Big changes can be very hard, even when we know what they are. And big changes we can't see coming can be the hardest of all.
It's up to us.
Whether we have a lot of change or a little change is up to us to decide. If we burn a lot more old under ground stuff, we will have a lot of change. Instead, though, we could use new clean power. We can get this new clean power from the sun. We can get it from the wind. We can get it from water. We can even make power kind of like the sun makes its own power. Using less of the old, dark stuff and more new clean power won't change our home as much. Right now that's not as easy as the old way, but we can do it.
What do we do?
Do we tell people- the people who make plans for everyone for tomorrow and the next day- that we want to keep using the old power? That we don't care if a big change happens that we won't be able to see coming? Or maybe, do we use less stuff, use the stuff we have for more things, and try to get the new, clean power? Do we maybe try a little harder to keep our home from changing so much? Do we make better plans for tomorrow and the next day?
Our home is changing. This is what's happening. It's up to
us.
What do we do?
Permalink
A long time ago, the people of our state agreed that they could not and would not decide what people can and can not say. They also decided that the people who worked for the state after them could not decide this, either. But schools that are part of the state do this all the time to the people who study there, against their own ideas and promises. But schools that are not part of the state should not do it, either. People should not be scared that they will be in trouble if they say what they think at school. This fear makes learning hard. Just because someone might get mad is not enough reason to say that some people--especially people who work for the state--can decide what can and can not be said. If you are mad about what a person says, you should respond , not try to get them into trouble.
Permalink
A long time ago there was a sort of animal that looked kind of like a human with hair on its body. These animals had babies and those babies had babies and so on, and a long time later the first sort of animal wasn't there anymore. That led us to today. Now there are humans, and there are animals who share a lot of their cell stuff with humans. These kinds come from the long-ago animal.
There are two sorts of not-human animals who are together the most like humans when you check their cell stuff. One of these sorts lives only in one place in the whole world. There are only about ten to the four power left in the world. We have to save them because they are beautiful in many ways. The most exciting thing is that they can help us learn about how the long-ago animals acted and thought.
Permalink
But wait! What light is coming through that window?
It is like the beginning of the day, and the pretty girl is like the sun
Come out, beautiful sun, and kill the angry sky world
Who is already sick and white with being sad
Because you, her friend, are far more beautiful than she
Be not her friend, for she is angry
Her needed dress is but sick and green
And none but stupid people do wear it
Throw it away!
It is my lady, oh, it is my love!
Oh, that she knew she were!
She speaks yet she says nothing, what of that?
Her eye speaks for her, I will answer it
I am too forward, it is not to me she speaks
Two of the most beautiful stars in all of the sky
Having some business, do ask her eyes
To light up their place in the sky until they return
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
The light of her cheek would out-light those stars
As day-light does a man-made light. Her eyes in the sky
Would through the air show so much
That flying animals would call and think it were not night
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Oh, that I were worn upon that hand
That I might touch that cheek!
Permalink
Cold wet places are interesting. They make homes for lots of living things. They store water and other important things and stop them from escaping. Cold wet places are there because water going in is more than water leaving in the summer. Changes can be caused easily by changes in wind, rain and sun.
I tried to make a picture of what happens in cold wet places and i hoped to find out what things would be most changed if changes to wind rain and sun happened.
I used water taken from places of interest to see what different types of stuff are in the water, as well as numbers that show how much water is in the place at different times.
I used these numbers to guess what would happen to the different types of stuff in the cold wet place if rain, wind and sun changed and I also used the numbers to guess how the different types of stuff got in the place.
After doing this we can see that changes in wind rain and sun could change how much stuff is in the cold wet places and how the stuff gets there. This could mean that the things that live in the cold wet places could die and that the water and other important things that are stored in cold wet places could escape.
More looking at cold wet places and taking things needs to look at needs to be done.
Permalink
Sticking your middle leg in the lady to make her happy
Permalink
I study tiny green things that live in the water and make food from the air. They are very important because the food they make can be used by other things in the water in areas where there usually wouldn't be food for those other things. We do not know is how long these things stay in the top of the water or where they go after that. Do they settle? Do they break down? It is important to know this because it helps us to understand where the stuff inside these tiny green things ends up, which allows us to guess what will happen when things change over the next many years. Everything is coupled, we just don't know exactly how yet.
Permalink
Cry, oh gods of love and feeling love towards something
and all men who can feel love and beautiful things
The flying animal or my girl is dead
The flying animal, best thing of my girl,
who she used to love more than her own eyes.
It was sweet as a food made by small flying animals and it knew its
person who owned it as well as a girl knows her mother
and it did not move from where it sat on her
but jumping around now here now there
it would make flying animal noises ever to its person who owned it alone.
And now it goes along that dark road
from which they say that no-one returns
But a word that makes bad things happen on you bad gods
of death, who eat all beautiful things
You have taken such a beautiful flying animal from me
Oh bad thing! Oh sad little flying animal!
By your doing the little eyes of my girl
are red and in pain from crying.
Permalink
A long time ago there was a sort of animal that looked kind of like a human with hair on its body. These animals had babies and those babies had babies and so on, and a long time later the first sort of animal wasn't there anymore. That led us to today. Now there are humans, and there are animals who share a lot of their cell stuff with humans. These kinds come from the long-ago animal.
There are two sorts of not-human animals who are together the most like humans when you check their cell stuff. One of these sorts lives only in one place in the whole world. There are only about ten to the four power left in the world. We have to save them because they are beautiful in many ways. The most exciting thing is that they can help us learn about how the long-ago animals acted and thought.
Permalink
One of the most important people in this story is a girl who becomes a police girl. At first, she is only a child and scared because the bad people from another town have taken away people she loved, but she comes to save her family and becomes a police girl. She works together with a police boy. They are very young but there are not many people here who are strong and fast and good at using the power the police people have. The girl has a pointed stick and fights bad guys. The boy talks to people and takes away their power when they have used it to do bad things to people without power. They do a lot of things like saving the girl's family who get in trouble a lot and and running a very big meeting where very very very many people talk about the power they have and play games with it. They get hurt a lot because their work is not safe. The older police man and police woman die and everyone is sad. There is going to be a big big very big fight now with lots of pointed sticks and power and other things for causing pain and death and the police girl and police boy have to lead the big fight which makes everyone scared because they are not old and most people who run big big big fights with lots of power are old. Also everyone is scared because if they lose the fight maybe the sun will go out. The police girl is not scared. She is angry because she has done a lot of work and is ready to fight the fight and people are not listening and calling her a baby and if they would just listen and do what they should they would be safe and also she is angry because she loves her world and the bad people want to hurt it and that is not okay with her at all.
Permalink
Long Walk in the Stars: The First Show
(for people who need it explained in easy words)
It is a story about people in a space car. They live a long time from now, when the world has fewer problems. The space car can go very fast, even faster than light. The job of those in the space car is to look for new worlds and new sorts of people, and to go where no man has gone before.
The most important person in the space car-- the head guy, if you will-- sits in a seat in the middle of the control room. (He also gets up and walks around, of course, which is good because he has a very fine behind and we are all glad to see it.) Everyone else works for him. This might seem nice, but is actually hard, because he also has to look out for them all. There are more than four hundred people in the space car, so this is no laughing matter.
The head guy often speaks with too many pauses, but that's fine. We love him anyway.
The next most important person in the space car is from another world. His ears are pointed and his blood is green. He pretends he does not feel anything (but this is a lie). He spends a lot of time telling the head guy to think more carefully. They save each other's lives a lot, and are probably married.
The control room has several other people in it as well. The guy who flies the space car has a very deep voice and can make good crazy eyes. Next to him sits the guy who figures out where the space car should go, who is very young and has hair like a dead animal.
Across the room sits the lady who runs the space car's phone lines. (Yes, people from other worlds can talk to each other even though they use different words. Don't ask me, or anyone who writes the show, how this works. Brain waves or something.) She can make music with her voice, and is good at fixing things. She's very cool, and if you don't agree, you are wrong.
There are two more important people in the space car. They spend less time in the control room than the others.
First, there is the doctor. He is actually the third most important person on the space car. He has a lot of thoughts, and always makes them known. This can be hard to deal with, but he means well, and often makes good points.
The doctor is close friends with the head guy, and though he pretends he is not good friends with the pointed-ear one, this is obviously a lie. Also, please keep in mind that he is a doctor and not anything else, damn it.
Finally, there is the guy who fixes the space car. He likes drinking. You should never say bad things about the space car, or he will probably hurt you.
The rest of the space car is full of two kinds of people: the kind who wear red and die a lot, and the kind with very short dresses who carry around tiny computers and get people to sign them. (There are a few other kinds, like the ones who help the doctor and ones who help fix the space car, but they are less normal.)
Outside of the space car, there are too many people for me to explain about. They come from all kinds of different worlds. Some are bad. Some are good. Many are hot women who make out with the head guy.
The space car flies around finding new places each show, and each place has new people and new problems. Many of these problems will make you think. Others will make you laugh. (Because the show was made quite a while ago, some things may make you laugh that were not actually meant to be funny.) This is what makes the show so interesting.
Many other shows followed Long Walk in the Stars: The First Show, such as:
Long Walk in the Stars: The Next Round of People
Long Walk in the Stars: Deep Space Three Times Three
Long Walk in the Stars: Far-Goer
Long Walk in the Stars: Named After The Space Car
Long Walk in the Stars: The Drawn Show
and more than ten movies. The newest one has the same people in it as The First Show (though they are played by different real-life people). And the First Show started it all.
Now that you know a little bit about it, I hope you will decide to watch Long Walk in the Stars: The First Show.
Live long and do well for yourself!
Permalink
I'm sad to say that I am afraid to die. It's never a good way to think if you want to write. It's not to say that I hold some love in my heart for life, or even that I would not accept an offer to give it up. I only fear that moment, that ending, that last gasp. And yet I have no reason to. I have no hope for anything more than this; I hold no idea of anything past that breath, and even so the idea of lasting dark, of nothing, offers far more hope than the idea of opening my eyes tomorrow. All that I've been given by this fear is pain. A pain that I can't share, not without the clear mind given to the man with nothing at all. With fear, I have no words. Without my words, I am nothing. That's not true, though. I have hate. I have the hate that I feel for myself, and that is what I have made myself from. And it is from there that my writing finds truth. And it is from that truth that I best my fear.
Permalink
A "group" is made of some numbers or other stuff and a thing that puts them together, like adding. What's important is that there has to be one number that- when put together with any other number- gives you the other number, and that for every number in the group there is another number that- when put together with the first number- gives you the number that we talked about in the first case. Also, if there are two things in the group and you put them together to make a new thing, that thing also has to be in the group. Finally, if there are three things in a group (which we will call one, two, and three), then if you put one together with two, and then put that together with three, it has to be the same as putting two together with three and then putting that together with one.
Permalink
The boy lived in a space under the stairs in his aunt and uncle's house. His parents had died when he was a baby, but he had never been told exactly why. His aunt and uncle told him that his parents died in a car problem. The truth was that they were killed by a mean man who had heard that a seer had said that their son--this boy-- would grow up to kill the mean man. The mean man tried to kill the baby but it didn't work. The baby boy was the only person in the world to live after the mean man tried to kill them. For this, the boy was very well-known. However, he did not know that he was well-known and he grew up with his aunt and uncle and their son, none of who were very nice to him at all. When the boy turned 11 years old, a very big man showed up and told him that he had powers that most people don't have.
Permalink
I raise the glass to accept the drink's bite . It warms and burns from the inside. Just like her. My love. My light. My Fire. The world was ours and anything possible...until she left. No Fire. No light. I could not accept the pain anymore and began to wall off my heart. It was cold work. Each day I added more ice and the walls grew taller. One day I didn't even notice the pain. There was nothing. No more hurt. No more feeling at all. I haven't seen that girl in 15 years, and the walls still hold. I am still safe. Sometimes I even forget what the cold walls hide. These are the days I pull them down, just a little bit, and think of Fire. It's not for everyone.
Permalink
Let's talk about the idea that men are better and should be in power, about what it means to be a man, and about how these ideas keep women down and are bad for men also. We live in a world where women have a "place," and if they try to leave that "place," they are called very bad names and made to feel pain. If women leave their place, they are thought to be taking something away from men, and should be made to feel pain for that. People who agree with the world's meaning of the word "man" and the "place" men hold in our world get very angry if anyone tries to make the world better for women, because they think this makes the world worse for men. Making the world better for women doesn't make it worse for men. But by changing the meaning of the word "man" and "woman," and by stopping the idea that men and women have a "place" in the world that they shouldn't leave, we can make the world better for everyone, not just women. Men can have things they don't have right now. They could lose some of the power comes with being a man, but some of that power isn't right for anyone to have anyway. We should live in a world where men and women have as much power as and are as free as each other. Men should get to stay home with children if they want and not get made fun of. Women should not get paid less for doing the same work. A woman's place is not in the kitchen or the home, and it is not a man's job to hide what he is feeling. There are much bigger problems that I could try to explain, but I am tired.
Permalink
'Pi' is a number. 'Pi' deals with the most round kind of thing you can draw on a floor: a 'circle'. If you walk around any 'circle', you walk 'pi' times as far as if you had walked straight from one side of the 'circle', through the middle, to the other side. The letter 'pi' comes from the old tongue of the land called 'Greece'. 'Greece' of old had many different cities where men with money thought about the world for fun while women and people without money worked hard so the men could think for fun. We have many good things today because many people have built upon what those men found out about the world by thinking.
Permalink
How to do fighting well: First you must learn to block, so you will not be hurt by very bad men. Then, you learn to hit. You do kicks, punches, and other kinds of hitting. Do these moves a lot. Then put them in a form and do that form a lot. Then you learn to do those moves fast and with power. You learn more and more moves and more and more forms. You set your mind in a strong, fighting way. You work on the timing of the forms to make some parts slow and other parts very very fast. When you know several forms well and been made a higher color through hard work, you do fighting in class. To do so, you must wear fighting shoes and hand covers and a head cover, all made of soft stuff so you will not be hurt by someone who did not mean to do so. Also, you put a hard thing in your mouth on your teeth so your teeth will not break into pieces and fall out. This would be a very bad problem. You often do this kind of fighting in class, so that if you are walking on the street and someone who is very bad jumps on you to hurt you with a gun or a thing that might cut you or with closed hands to hurt you, you can be ready and easily do the things that you often do in class. In this way, you will probably not be hurt.
Permalink
This might look like it is about numbers, but it is really about people who do and do not believe in god, and how to make your boyfriend or girlfriend cross with you. So if you don't like numbers you might like this anyway.
I study numbers, and there are lots of ideas in numbers that I wish were ideas in every-day life. An idea I wish more people understood is that of a Break-Down Case.
Let's say you draw a box on a piece of paper, and then you say what it means to be a box. "A box fills an area on the paper, and one number says how tall it is, and another number says how wide it is." You then turn to your friend and ask them to draw a box. They pick up the writing thing and draw a line. "That's not a box," you say, "that's a line!"
"You said what it means to be a box," says your friend. "It fills an area on the paper, and one number says how tall it is and one number says how wide it is. This is my box, and its wide-number is None." You then hit your friend in the mouth.
By the meaning we gave for a box, a line is a Break-Down Case of a box. If you had a bag with all boxes in it, the line would be in that bag, but if your boyfriend or girlfriend wanted a box as a present, and you gave them a line, they would be cross with you.
It's important to note that we can say what it means to be a box in different ways, and a line is not a break-down case of a box under all of them. You have to take care when saying a line is a box. If your boyfriend or girlfriend has a different meaning for "box" than you do, and you give them a line, not only will they be cross with you, but you will be wrong, and that is almost as bad.
Real-life has Break-Down Cases. If you want to go somewhere by train you need a Train-Paper which will let you go a set number of stops. If you want to wait next to the train to wave to your friend as they go, you need another piece of paper to let you stand next to the train. That piece of paper is like a Train-Paper that lets you go No stops. It is a Break-Down Case of a Train-Paper. (Your boyfriend or girlfriend would not be happy with one if they wanted a Train-Paper as a present.)
The reason I think people should know about Break-Down Cases as an idea is because it would help a lot when they have word-fights with people about whether or not something should be in one group of things or another.
Some people believe in god, and some people do not believe in god. A lot of people who believe in god are part of a god-group. people who do and do not believe in god get into lots of word-fights over the computers that are joined together. Most of these word-fights are stupid.
One word-fight that happens a lot is when someone who believes in god says "being in a god-group is about believing in gods. People who don't believe in god believe in No gods, so not believing in god is a god-group." People who don't believe in god get very angry about this. "That's not right," they say, "because part of the point of not believing in god is not being in a god-group". I do not think people have good plans when they get into this word-fight, but they can't help themselves.
But since we hit our friend in the mouth for drawing a line instead of a box, we know what's going on here. Under some meaning for god-group (but not every meaning), not believing in god is a Break-Down Case of a god-group.
When we come across a situation like this, we have to ask our selves the same sorts of questions as we would when thinking about the box and the line. Is the meaning they gave for god-group one that makes sense? Does the Break-Down Case really talk about what most people talk about when they think about god-groups? Are we having a word-fight over two different things with the same name? If we are, maybe we should stop using that name. When we have word-fights about what words mean, we usually don't have much to show for it at the end.
Then there is the most important question: if your boyfriend or girlfriend wanted a god-group as a present, and you gave them not-believing-in-god, would they be cross with you?
Permalink
There is a kid who is very good at using computers. He likes to play games on computers that are owned by other people, even if the people who own the computer do not know he is doing it. One day he tries to play a game on a computer that he thinks is full of games. This computer wants the kid to give a hidden word before he can play games, but the kid does not know what the hidden word is.
The kid asks his friends and they tell him to learn about the man that built the computer and maybe then he can decide what the hidden word is. The kid reads old news papers about the man that built the computer. He was very good at building computers, but he died after he built the computer that the kid wants to talk to. The man also had a son, and the kid guesses that the hidden word is the son's name, which turns out to be right! The computer lets him in and he starts playing a game.
The kid does not know that the computer is not really for playing games. It is owned by the good guys and its job is figuring out what to do if bad guys in other places attack the good guys. The computer can even send sky cars and space cars to attack the bad guys, if it decides that the bad guys are attacking the good guys. The kid thinks he is playing a game, but the computer tells the good guys that the bad guys are attacking. The good guys do not know that the computer is not telling them the truth. The good guys think that the bad guys really are attacking. This makes them scared, because if the bad guys attack, lots and lots of people will be dead. The good guys are not sure what to do, so they grab the kid and bring him to where the computer is.
The good guys ask the kid if he is working for the bad guys, and the kid says no, but the good guys do not believe him. The kid uses the computer to find out that the man who built the computer is still living! The kid also finds out where the man lives. The kid runs away from the good guys and the computer and goes to see the man who built the computer. He thinks the man can help him tell the good guys that the bad guys are not really attacking.
The man who built the computer explains that he was trying to build a computer that thinks like people do, but that he could not make the computer realize that sometimes it should stop doing anything because nothing it can do will work. The man has already realized this. He thinks that the good guys and the bad guys will attack one another and make everyone dead, and that there is nothing he can do about it. He lives near a place that the bad guys will attack first, so he will be dead first. The kid talks to the man and finally makes the man think that maybe he can do something to help. The kid and the man go back to where the computer is.
All the good guys are very nervous because the computer is telling them that the space cars from the bad guys are about to land on them and make lots of people dead. The man explains that the computer is not telling the truth. The good guys are not sure, so they wait until the space cars should have landed, and then look to see if any space cars really did land. None of the space cars landed, so no people have died, and the good guys are happy. The good guys understand that the computer was lying to them about the space cars from the bad guys.
The computer still thinks the space cars from the bad guys are real, and gets ready to attack the bad guys with its own space cars. This would be bad, because this time, the space cars really would fly to the bad guys, and kill a lot of people. The good guys try to stop the computer from sending the space cars but they don't know how to stop it.
The good guys ask the kid and the man if they know how to stop the computer. The kid makes the computer play an easy game. Usually the game is between the computer and a person, but the kid makes it be between the computer and the same computer. The computer plays the game many times, but no matter what it does, it can't figure out a good ending for the game. This makes the computer realize that nothing it can do will work, so it stops trying to play the game. It then decides that the same thing is happening with the bad guys, so it stops trying to send space cars to attack the bad guys. No one dies, the kid and the man are very happy, and the good guys are very happy.
Permalink
The Book for People Who Go to Other Places With People They Don't Know That Tells Us About The Group Of Stars We Live In
In a lot of stories, bad people from space want to make our home (the one which means we're not in space) go away for ever and ever, but the good guys stop them. In this story, this does not happen. Instead, a man has his house torn into many pieces, and only a little bit later, on the same day, bad space people tear our home into many very very small pieces, along with everything on it. But the man manages to hide on the box that goes through space that tore up out home because his best friend turned out to be a good space person. Then, the bad space person, who is green, finds the man and his space friend, and decides to read them some words that he wrote that he thinks sound nice. The friends can understand him because they have water animals in their ears that tell them what the bad space man is saying. When the bad man finds out that the friends did not like his words, he gets angry and throws them out into space.
This is, however, not the end of the story. 29 seconds later, the friends are picked up by a space box that was taken by the good space man's mothers ' other son, who used to lead the our group of stars (or so it seemed, but that's another story). He had two heads and three arms. He had one of his friends with him, who the first man had met at a party a long time ago and liked a lot, but she had gone with the man with two heads instead. There was also a sort-of man made by other men who was never happy at all and always told everyone so.
The group of people decided to try to find a ball that people live on that used to make other balls for people to live on if they were given a lot of money. The space man with one head thought it wasn't real, but it was, and they found it, and were attacked. But the not-space man did something and the up goer that were attacking them became a land animal that lives in the water and some nice-smelling small tree-like things. So the four friends went down to the ball from space.
There, the first man waited outside while the three others went down into the ball. While waiting with the sort-of man, a man from the ball that made other balls met him and took him with him to his office. He told the man about what happened a long time ago when a group of people decided they wanted to find the Answer to The Greatest Question of Life, The Thing Which Has Everything Else In It, and Everything. 7 and a half hundred hundred hundred years later, the computer they built to find it out told them it was 42, so they had to build another, bigger computer to find out what the Question was. And so the smaller (but still very big) computer decided how to build the bigger computer, and they asked the ball-people (who didn't look like balls, but were from the ball that made other balls) to make it (because it was as big as a ball that people lived on), and the first man found out that the ball he came from was the ball the ball-people made, and it was torn up 5 minutes before it found out what the question was.
Permalink
Love was the last thing I wanted to believe in the night I met her in that house where my friend and his wife threw their third house warming party in memory of the day they joined each other in "a life of love" (I know: that was what they actually called the party. Who speaks like that?), but there she was sitting on that worn seat with those friends of hers laughing away as if there was very little in the world to care about in life. There was something about her brown hair that drove me mad. It was all over the place on her head, but beautiful, something that only a woman who does not care a bit about what men think would do when going out for a week-end party with a group I knew she barely knew. In fact, I had never seen her before at my friend's parties. Where in the world had she come from? I wanted to know more than anything, but I made the point of not asking my friend or his wife who the woman was. They had the problem of telling everything they knew in the most annoying way to everyone in a room, like children do in school. None of us had ever really grown up, especially them. We were all grown up by numbers, buy not a one of us had changed from the way we had been in middle school. So, there I was, alone. All the same questions I had as a child, I had then. How are you to quietly meet a nice woman in a group of so many people when she is surrounded by her girlfriends? No easy answers. No easy answers at all. What was I to do but the only quick minded thing a nice man like myself could do from a life of learned bad "Hellos." I waited until she walked into the bathroom, followed her, waited a while longer, and then pretended to fall into the bathroom right as she was opening the door. I know. As I fell into the door as she was opening it, I ended up making my fall too perfect. I fault my very big shoes that I bought from the second hand store. And there I went, into the room, onto the floor, onto my head. I woke up about half an hour after the party was over with a mark above my eye. My little show had apparently ended the party. Someone I heard asked if I had a heart attack. There was a doctor, thank god, at the party, and that was the reason I later learned that I did not go to the hospital. Imagine explaining that! When I came to, my friend's wife was sitting above me. The woman with the beautiful brown hair had left, but there was a note beside the bed in the bedroom where I lay. It was from her. It said, "sorry." It said a lot of other things. Those other things I plan to keep to myself for now. She left her number on the note. That was the day I met my wife. Well, the day I went on our first date was the first day I met my wife. I suppose that's really where it all began. Now that she's gone, that day is all I seem to best remember of us. Everything else is like a sky filled with so many dark colors of white and grey. I'm sitting in my chair trying so hard to remember where it all began to go wrong. Perhaps it was that day...but I don't remember.
Permalink
Family is the most normal and the most strange of ideas. With family you may have the expected Mr. and Mrs. that make the mother and father who make the daughter and son, but family is more than man and woman or parents and children. Family is the reason to share yourself. It is the relationship that makes you shout and forces you to whisper. It is a kiss in the kitchen before you leave; a hug when you cry, and a promise to love even when you hate. So, whether you are mom, dad, daughter, son, sister, brother or friend, it all means one true thing- Family is a cause for which you fight.
Permalink
Just another day. This is me sitting on my chair with a cup of coffee in my hand. I am thinking about that one thing you can do to spend each of your day without being bored. Guess what! Think think, think and think again, but still you would not be able to find out that one thing which can keep you and your will stuck to it and your attention is not taken away even for a second. Believe me, it is not easy but it is way too interesting. It is something which can make you do wonders without you knowing about it. For any such thing when you crack, you will feel happy and could out reach even sky with your thought.
So now is my time to get up and look up to the world, with my arms wide open to hold the world and this moment within me. Have you ever thought about something like this for yourself. If not then start doing it. Time is one thing, that you would cry over it is gone, for if it goes once, it never comes back. Wake up, break the silence, live up to your dreams, your wish, get the best out of your life, for you and only you can make it happen and no one else can do it for you. If your eyes are well set on the finish line, then no matter how hard any one would try, no matter what they do, they can never take your attention away from it. So did you decide what you want from your life?
Each minute of a human being around is important. They can make it happen for themselves for no one else can do it for them.
Permalink
Mr. Romney was trying to become the most important man in the biggest place in the world. He wanted to live in the White House. But some people saw him say bad things about lots of other people, and so they said "You are a bad man. We will not let you be important. We will not back you". Then Mr. Romney got sad and Mr. Obama could be great again.
Permalink
THE STUDY OF MONEY-DECIDING
There are people who study how people decide what to do when they can't have everything, like time, food, love, or whatever makes you happy. They do this so we can learn how people will act, what people want, and other deep things about life. A smaller group of these people study how people act with money. I will explain to you what this smaller group of people does.
We like having lots of things (probably everyone agrees). Money buys us things, so we like having lots of money. Also, we like having more things, but not too much at the same time. We might like eating food but the last bit of food doesn't make us happy as the first bit. So, with money, we don't want to spend it all today and have none tomorrow. This makes us sometimes have left over money, which we keep for spending tomorrow.
An easy way to use this left over money is to give it to other people who want to buy things today but don't have enough. In return they will promise you to give you back the money, and a little bit more, because we don't like waiting for things (it is better to eat the same thing today than tomorrow). There are money-offices where doing this is made easier for lots of people.
Another way we can use our left over money is to buy little parts of big businesses. Since we own a part of the business, when the business makes money next year, we get that part of the money made by the business. We can think of buying parts of business as a kind of promise, which we can call a safe-promise. The business promises you that it will give you a part of money that it makes next year and every next year. We can then use the money we get next year with the safe-promise to buy more things that we want like food and cars and houses. If we buy safe-promises then we can can usually have more money to buy things tomorrow than if we just kept the left over money, because the person who has the job of managing the business gets paid well to make lots of money for the business.
But sometimes the safe-promises might not give us money next year, because the business couldn't make any money. Since we will be sad when we don't get any money, we pay a little less for the safe-promises when we are less sure how much money the business will make. If we fear that the business has a big chance of making no money, we will pay a lot less for the safe-promises. But there might also be a small chance that these businesses might make lots of money, too.
We can buy these safe-promises from other people, and give these safe-promises for money to other people, just like other real things in the world. Since there are lots of people holding lots of safe-promises in the world, everyone can be happy because they can buy and give away their safe-promises for money (almost) any time. Everyone can decide well how much to eat this year, how many safe-promises to buy this year, and how much to eat next year, and so on.
When we buy promises it is hard to know how much to pay (we will call how much to pay the paying-number). One group of people try to find these right paying-numbers. Businesses from which we buy safe-promises are different, so the paying-number should be different. Some businesses might make lots of money tomorrow, but that changes if the state of the world tomorrow is different. But we can't know tomorrow's state today! This is what makes everything hard. Even more, sometimes we can buy promises that buy other promises, and to find the right number to pay you need a lot of number-studies and strong computers. If you use the wrong paying-numbers you can lose a lot of money! But using number-studies, and other ideas, we can try to make it easier to find the paying-number of different safe-promises. The best thing we want is to find an idea that can explain all the paying-numbers, and how they move, for all the safe-promises in the world at the same time.
Another group of people study how money works inside businesses, and how to decide what to do in the business. These are things like how to get the money to work the business, because the business can get money from the big money-offices or give safe-promises to people in return for money. This is important because they have different paying-numbers. Other things are how to give the money back to the people who have the safe-promises when the business makes money. The business can give a little money back every day, or a lot of money only sometimes, or even buy back the safe-promises! Then there are different things like making sure the people working in the business are doing well in their jobs. This is because sometimes the person who manages buys things for himself, with the money that should be used instead for the business. This makes the people who own the business angry, because the person who is being paid to manage the business is not doing his job right.
Permalink
Love was the last thing I wanted to believe in the night I met her in that house where my friend and his wife threw their third house warming party in memory of the day they joined each other in "a life of love" (I know: that was what they actually called the party. Who speaks like that?), but there she was sitting on that worn seat with those friends of hers laughing away as if there was very little in the world to care about in life. There was something about her brown hair that drove me mad. It was all over the place on her head, but beautiful, something that only a woman who does not care a bit about what men think would do when going out for a week-end party with a group I knew she barely knew. In fact, I had never seen her before at my friend's parties. Where in the world had she come from? I wanted to know more than anything, but I made the point of not asking my friend or his wife who the woman was. They had the problem of telling everything they knew in the most annoying way to everyone in a room, like children do in school. None of us had ever really grown up, especially them. We were all grown up by numbers, buy not a one of us had changed from the way we had been in middle school. So, there I was, alone. All the same questions I had as a child, I had then. How are you to quietly meet a nice woman in a group of so many people when she is surrounded by her girlfriends? No easy answers. No easy answers at all. What was I to do but the only quick minded thing a nice man like myself could do from a life of learned bad "Hellos." I waited until she walked into the bathroom, followed her, waited a while longer, and then pretended to fall into the bathroom right as she was opening the door. I know.
As I fell into the door as she was opening it, I ended up making my fall too perfect. I fault my very big shoes that I bought from the second hand store. And there I went, into the room, onto the floor, onto my head. I woke up about half an hour after the party was over with a mark above my eye. My little show had apparently ended the party. Someone I heard asked if I had a heart attack. There was a doctor, thank god, at the party, and that was the reason I later learned that I did not go to the hospital. Imagine explaining that! When I came to, my friend's wife was sitting above me. The woman with the beautiful brown hair had left, but there was a note beside the bed in the bedroom where I lay. It was from her. It said, "sorry." It said a lot of other things. Those other things I plan to keep to myself for now. She left her number on the note. That was the day I met my wife. Well, the day I went on our first date was the first day I met my wife. I suppose that's really where it all began. Now that she's gone, that day is all I seem to best remember of us. Everything else is like a sky filled with so many dark colors of white and grey. I'm sitting in my chair trying so hard to remember where it all began to go wrong. Perhaps it was that day...but I don't remember.
Permalink
MOUTH
In a town beside the water, there is a new police man. The people of the town like the new police man, but they tell him not to rock the water car, which is both a kind of joke and also a way of saying that the new police man shouldn't try to make the town people do new ideas about being a town.
Then a really big water animal starts eating the people of the town who go in the water. The police man gets worried and tells the people of the town not to go in the water, but the people of the town don't want to listen to them, and they tell him to shut up, because if people in other towns hear about the big water animal, they won't want to stay in the town by the water.
But the police man wants everyone to be safe, so he gets a man who is good at chasing water animals, and another man who knows all about water animals, and they get in a water car and go to look for the big water animal. But when they see just how big it is, they start to worry that maybe they should have brought a bigger water car.
The problem only gets worse when the big water animal starts to eat parts of the water car, which makes it even smaller. It also eats the man who was trying to kill it, which I guess he should have seen coming. Now there are only two men left, and almost no water car. The man who knows about water animals hides under the water, but the police man stays on top, and just when he is about to be eaten, he throws a big round box of fire-making water into the animal's big mouth, and then he yells "smile, you son of a lady dog!" and fires his gun at the big round box, and the big round box and the whole big water animal go on fire and end up in little parts. There is blood all over, and the water car is almost all gone, but the two men are okay and they have saved the town from the great big mouth.
Permalink
THINGS TO CUT WITH, PARTS ONE TO SEVEN
This is a story that happens over seven stories. The first is quite good, but they get bad then worse after that.
In the first story there are two live men and one dead man stuck in a room. They have been put there by a bad man who talks using a small crazy wood man with angry eyes on a tv. He wants to play a game. It turns out that they have to escape but to do that they have to hurt themselves or, at least, each other. The lead man needs to cut off his foot. It is hard to do and makes him very hurt, maybe even dead. But, the man who looks dead is really the bad man, and not dead at all! The bad man was not really that bad; maybe he was trying to do good, just in a very bad way. He thinks that the other men need to learn something, but I do not think that this is the right way to do it. I quite like this story because it is small and mean and makes sense, kind of.
The rest of the stories make this small story a very big and confusing story. Also, a stupid story. The good-bad man is really sick. He lives in his bed and gets other people to play games and also to run games. Sometimes these stories play a game on us, and dead people are not dead, or the stories are happening at the same time, or good people are bad, and so on. Many people get hurt or cut up and, to be real with you, none of it makes sense after a point. There is a lot of blood and lots of things with points and lots of people get hurt, sometimes in very big ways. One lady has her head come off. A police man does bad things. Some people get stuck in a house and have to work together, but they really kill each other. Then that part of the story happens again. The man who cut off his foot is not really dead. The last story is made so that it comes out of the tv at you. It all gets a bit stupid and funny.
I think the story people think they are telling a good story but really they just like it when people laugh at blood and give them money for more stories. It makes me sad when small good stories become big stupid stories.
Permalink
In the game 'Spore', you take animals that you have made and help them go to space. First, you have to make them eat food as a cell. Next, you have to make friends with or kill other animals. Then, you become a town and have to make friends with or kill the other towns. Then you build a city and can either buy, take over, or or force your thoughts on them. Finally, you go to space and have to reach the middle of the star thing you are in.
Permalink
The people who think about brains used to say that your brain has three parts. The first part is the oldest, and is like that of the green water animals with the big smile. It stops the body from dying. It makes sure it keeps breathing and eating, and fights off other green water animals that move too far into its area.
The second part is like that of the horse. It feels things. It can care and fear. It can be pleased. It can want things. It can know other horses and make friends with them. It can remember what it has done and learn to do new things it did not come into the world with. It can play games with other horses so it does not have to fight them. It can also play games with other horses to find out if it wants to make baby horses with them.
The third part is like that of humans, and other animals with hair that walk on two legs. It can reason. It can talk about its self. It can talk about sets of things that are like each other, and use that set for thinking with. It can follow animals over a long area for a long time so it can kill and eat them, and then say why it should get a bigger share of the food than others in the group. It can play very big games with all the other humans it ever meets to see whether it should look up to them, or down to them. It can want ideas.
So, (say the people who think about brains), when you lie down on the Mind Doctor's couch, you are lying down next to a horse, and a green water animal with a big smile.
I do not believe that people who think about brains still say this. It's an old idea. Also Mind Doctors don't make you lie on a couch any more, but it is a nice picture to think about.
Permalink
The world gets more hot because of burnt wood air sending long light back to ground. Short light from the sun hits the ground and makes the ground hot. The hot ground sends long light up into the air. Some bits of the air get excited by the long light and turn around very fast. Sometimes the excited bits of air make long light and the long light can go up or down or it can go to the side. This means that it is harder for long light to get away from the ground and the bit of air that the long light finally gets away from is colder.
Permalink
Well, it is a hard thing to write. When not having very many
words to say very much at all, I can not say much at all. Repeating myself over
and over is the only way I can even say anything. It is a hard thing to do.
Very hard actually. I can not write any great work with so few words to write
with, but I could probably out do most. Thinking so small with my thought,
words do not write themselves, as is often the case with many great people-who
write great things as a job and thing that makes them really happy. That last
bit was hard to write, even for I. This is a fun thing to do, writing with not
a care for what I say, which is nothing at all, but with every care for how
exactly I say it. I can not continue on with not saying anything about anything
important, for the hour is late; I promise you that the nothings I am writing
to you now are still better than most songs that are out today. Good day, but
do not put "good" and "day" together because that is too
big of a word for most all small minded people. Happy thoughts to you.
I am very, very good at dragging out conversations about "nothing",
while saying "nothing" a whole lot of times because
"nothing" sounds better than "no thing"; if you were not
knowing of that fact quite as much as you should be.
Permalink
When people have to decide things, it can be hard---there might be a lot to consider! And when you put many people together, and they each have to pick what to do as a part of a group, it can be even harder to figure out what's going on. One way of trying to make sense of situations like these is by pretending that the people in the group are playing a kind of "game", and then studying that game. This helps because thinking about a game can be easier than thinking about the real world.
So lots of people study games as a way of figuring out how people decide things. But what kinds of games are good for this? Usually, people study games where each player knows all the possible moves (of every player), even if there are hundreds of moves or more, and even if some of the moves are very strange. People also usually study games where the moves that everyone makes are the only things that matter, so there is no room for a player to, say, feel bad about what they decide if it hurts someone who was nice to them. To be sure, while the class of games that people usually study is small in some ways, it has also given us a very good way of understanding how people act. But what if we want more?
I work on making the class of games bigger so that we can use them to talk about more kinds of situations. Now, if you push this too far, you end up with games that are too hard to understand. So you can't just throw everything in---you need to walk a fine line.
The key idea of my approach is that the way people see the world is important, and it is not always the way the world really is. A player may see two moves that are different as being the same. One player might consider something important that another player ignores completely. And a player may care about much more than just the moves that everyone makes. By carefully adding these "ways of seeing the world" into the game, we get something that can help us better understand a wider class of "game-like" situations, and, as such, better understand why people do what they do.
Permalink
He liked everything about her, especially her conversation, which made him shake his head and lift his shoulders. She saw his smiles and talked even faster to bring them on again. It was the start of something quite deep and sweet: he listened and she talked. It lasted a week.
Permalink
The cat that was in the house ran through the room and ate his own foot because he is weird. Then I said, "Good job that cat."
Permalink
What is the meaning of life?
Shadow and light, day and night, hate and love, under and above.
Cold and hot, is and is not, fall and fly, live and die.
Couldn't and could, bad and good, us and them, take and send.
Forward and behind, mean and kind, agree and fight, black and white.
Seeing how all parts of you and your world has two sides, in this a quiet but important learning hides.
The dream of a world where all is torn into two, is something needed for someone to learn; a job meant just for you.
For another part of you lives outside of this place, and is watching and feeling all that you face. It doesn't know any more than the One, so it sent you to see, the pretend play of 'you' and your dream world of 'we'. But both the you and the we, all the she and the he, it is all the same, as it is all only Me. Just a new way for me to see, which leads to a new way to be. Picture the roads of the Mind as the arms of a tree.
Just waking each day is a kiss to me that you give, I'll tell you the meaning of life: it is simply to live. For just living each moment is nothing short of the best; just give me your eyes and I will do the rest.
You now know the what, why, and how, and would like to know the who? Please don't call me your God; I am simply You.
Permalink
MORE SPACE FIGHTS
After the first big space fight, the good guys had to go and hide on a world where it was really cold, because the man in black had escaped and now he was really mad! They were safe for a while (except for when they went outside, because it was cold and there were bad animals there), but then the bad guys came and found them, and they had to fight really hard so that they could all escape. After that, they had to run around space a lot, trying not to get caught by the bad guys. The kid went away to find a little old green man to tell him more about SPACE POWERS, and they all met up again at the sky house of a friend of the space driving guy. But the man in black and all his bad guy friends were waiting! They put the space driving guy in a cold box to send away to another bad guy, and the man in black had a big fight with the kid: good SPACE POWERS against bad SPACE POWERS (which come from being sad or angry). Two important things happened: the man in black cut off the kid's hand, and also the kid learned that man in black was his dad! He was having a big day. Then he fell out of the sky house, but his friends caught him in the space car.
What we can learn from this story is that sometimes dads have a hard time showing their love in a good way, even when they know SPACE POWERS.
Permalink
A long time ago, far far away, a man in black went into space to try to find some plans he had lost. He found a lady, but she would not say where she had put the plans, so he took her instead. She had put the plans inside a little white computer guy! The little white computer guy, and a taller computer guy who worried a lot, escaped to another world, where they met a kid who didn't want to do his work. They found an old man, a space driving guy, and the space driving guy's friend with a lot of hair, and they all went to space together to look for the lady. On the way, the old guy told the kid about SPACE POWERS. Then, something bad happened! They got caught by the bad guys! They found the lady and were just about to escape when the man in black showed up and fought the old man. The man in black cut the old man up with his light stick, and the kid was really sad, but they all got away. They used the plans from inside the little white computer guy to come up with an idea for how to get the man in black back for killing the old man and all the other bad things he'd done. There was a big fight in space, and when most of the space cars had gone on fire, it was just the kid left, flying down a long space hallway. He had one go, and it was a hard shot, but instead of using his computer, he used the SPACE POWERS he had learned about! The big space house, and all the bad guys inside it, went on fire.
What we can learn from this story is that, just like the old man said to the kid, every time is a good time for SPACE POWERS.
Permalink
EVEN MORE SPACE FIGHTS
Remember how the space driving guy got sent to the other bad guy in a really cold box? When he woke up, he was at the bad guy's house and there were bad guys ALL AROUND. But soon, the kid and the lady and the computer guys showed up to save him, and the kid had got so good at SPACE POWERS that soon all the bad guys were falling down into a mouth in the ground. He'd even got a new hand! Everyone got away, but they learned that the man in black had made a new big space house with big space guns, and even with all their best space fighting cars they couldn't make it go on fire because it had a space bag around it. The kid went back to the little old green man to learn more about SPACE POWERS, and everyone else tried to break the space bag so they could make the big space house go on fire. The kid came back and let his dad catch him and take him to his crazy old friend, who said it was okay to be sad or mad or angry because it made you better at SPACE POWERS. But the kid didn't believe him, and they had a big fight. But just when it looked like the kid was losing, his dad picked up the crazy old man and threw him away. Then the dad died. The kid escaped just before the big space house went on fire, and there was a big party. You would think that the kid and the lady would get married, but it turned out she was his sister, so she married the space driving guy instead, even though he was kind of a jerk to her sometimes.
What we can learn from this story is that being happy is the best SPACE POWER.
Permalink
When in the course of things that happen to people, some people decide they need to break from their old way of deciding who gets what, and to become their own thing in the powers of the world, the totally-a-different-thing- from, yet still-the-same-order-as, state to which both the hard wrapper around what things in the world can happen, and of the world's God say they can have, then if it is important to them what people think, it means that they should say what the causes are which make them want to not part of the old bigger group anymore.
2.1 We hold these truths to be seen obviously, that all men were made the same, that they are given by the thing that made them with sure rights which can't be taken by another party, that some of these are life, being free to decide what one should do right now, and the chase of the state of being happy.
2.2 That to make sure these rights are theirs, classes of people that can use force to make other people do stuff are made by men, getting their just powers only because the people that are being made to do stuff say it is okay. That when any form of making people do or not do stuff causes trouble for meeting these ends, it is the right of the people to change it or make it not be a thing anymore, and to make a new way of forcing others to do things, laying its bottom part on such ideas and putting order to its powers in such form, so that to them it seems like it gives them the biggest chance of being safe and happy.
2.3 Reason, true enough, will say that ways of forcing people to do or not do things that are around for a long time should not be changed for any old reason; and everything that people have seen happen has shown, that people have a bigger chance to not like things, while bad things are around to not be liked, than to right themselves by doing away with the forms that they are used to.
2.4 But when a long train of mean and not right things get done and things are taken in a not right way, chasing after the same thing always shows why a plan to make them smaller under the most not-the-same- between-people way of being in power that is possible, it is their right, and it is a thing they really should do, to throw off such a way of making people do or not do things, and to get ways for having new guards for them to be safe in times that happen any time after right now.
2.5 Such has been the long-waiting bother of these groups of people; and such is now the need that they have which makes them have to change their old ways of getting people to do or not do things. The stuff that happened of the present person in power of Great 'Britain' is a story of repeated hurting and not right taking, all of which has a straight up problem with the very making of the most bad use of power over these States. To show why this is true, let facts be given to a true-talking world.
Permalink
Some places you stay that aren't your home are great at any time. Other places are really fun sometimes, and no fun at other times. When this happens, no people want to stay there, but this is a problem when it's cold, because all kinds of things can go wrong. What you want is someone who doesn't mind the cold to stay at the place and look after it until all the people decide it's okay to come back. But if there were some bad problems at that place in the past, it is sometimes very hard to find someone to do this job.
This is how a man who writes books and his wife and their little boy come to be at the empty high-up staying place when it is really cold. There is a cool old man who lives at the place, and he shows them around. At first, it looks like everything is going to be fine, because there are a lot of cool old rooms and all the sweet cold food you could want (the cool old man uses his mind powers to know that the little boy likes sweet cold food), but then the cool old man goes away, and it turns out that staying in a big empty place when it is very cold and you can't go outside can cause some problems. The man starts to get angry all the time because he is trying to write and he can't think of anything with all the noise, even though there are only two other people, so he yells at them (which makes even more noise) until they go away. The wife does all the work, and the little boy rides around on his inside car. He finds two girls who are not really real, and also a lot of red water coming out of the up-and-down-box doors, and also a door to a bad room where he is not supposed to go (he knows this because his not-real friend tells him). While all this is happening, the man is getting a lot of work done! He has written many words of his new book, but I think he is not doing it right because he has just written the same words over and over again. He is not even very good at pressing the writing keys, and you can see his writing has a lot of problems. I would not like to buy his book, but it seems to make him happy to have written so many words. He is so happy he goes down the stairs to where there is a little party, and a man gives him a party drink, but another man has a problem with his feet and his party drink goes all over the man's clothes. What is strange is that we can see that none of the people at the party are really real!
When the lady finds the words that the man has written, she knows that he is crazy and she cries and cries. She finds the little boy and they hide together in the bathroom, but the man finds them. He is angry because they didn't like his book, and so he tries to get into the bathroom using a cutting stick that he found in another room. The little boy escapes out the window, but the lady is too big, so she has to fight the man with her own cutting stick. The cool old man comes back to help out, because his mind powers told him there were problems at the high-up staying-place, but the man hits him on the head and he can't help anymore. The man chases the little boy outside into a big tree place, but the big tree place was made to get lost in, and the little boy and his not-real friend are good at not getting lost. But the man is as bad at not getting lost as he is at writing books, and so he gets stuck in the tree place and it is so cold that he goes dead. And even when he is dead he looks very happy to have written so many words.
Permalink
Learn How Stars Age
Stars burn a very light type of air that is packed very tight in the middle of the star. The tiny pieces of the air join to form a slightly heavier type of air that can't burn in the star without the middle being much hotter and tighter.
After a long time, all the very light air in the middle is used up. Then the star gets much hotter and tighter in the middle, so it can burn the slightly heavier air. It also also gets much bigger and cooler outside. But it is still so hot it will burn up any close-in worlds.
The sun is a star and will do this after a very long time. It will get so big that it will burn our world all up. This will not happen for at least ten hundred hundred hundred hundred years, so we don't have to worry about it now.
Long after that, a star like the sun will burn up all the slightly heavier air, too. Then it will become very tiny and hot and white, but will be so tiny it won't be able to keep its worlds warm. It will keep cooling off over a very very long time. The worlds that are left will be all ice.
But stars that are heavier can go on to burn heavier and heavier things, until finally they make the biggest flash we know. That is their end.
Permalink
This is a story about a short man who finds a cool ring. The ring is really cool - when the short man puts it on, other people can't see him. His uncle who is also a short man gave it to him, but it was hard for him to do because his uncle really liked the cool ring a lot.
However! An old man tells him that the cool ring is actually very bad, and that he and some friends should take it to a very hot place under some high ground and break it. So the short man and some other short men and a heavy short man and a man who looks a bit like a girl and two other men and the old man all go off to take the ring to the hot place. And they are all called the group of friends of the ring.
But there is another old man trying to stop them. So they have to go under the ground to get to the hot place. The heavy short man thinks he has friends under the ground, but he does not. They are all DEAD. So then the group of friends of the ring have to run away from a lot of angry short men and a very big angry man who is made of fire and shadow. The old man fights him though and says "you will not pass" to the big angry fire-shadow man and then they both fall down into the ground. It is very great when this happens but also very sad and the group of friends of the ring do not know what to do.
So they go to stay with some other people who look a bit like girls, who live in a place with trees. But they are not happy about either the heavy short man or the cool ring and they can't stay for long,
Permalink
This is a story about a short man who finds a cool ring. The ring is really cool - when the short man puts it on, other people can't see him. His uncle who is also a short man gave it to him, but it was hard for him to do because his uncle really liked the cool ring a lot.
However! An old man tells him that the cool ring is actually very bad, and that he and some friends should take it to a very hot place under some high ground and break it. So the short man and some other short men and a heavy short man and a man who looks a bit like a girl and two other men and the old man all go off to take the ring to the hot place. And they are all called the group of friends of the ring.
But there is another old man trying to stop them. So they have to go under the ground to get to the hot place. The heavy short man thinks he has friends under the ground, but he does not. They are all DEAD. So then the group of friends of the ring have to run away from a lot of angry short men and a very big angry man who is made of fire and shadow. The old man fights him though and says "you will not pass" to the big angry fire-shadow man and then they both fall down into the ground. It is very great when this happens but also very sad and the group of friends of the ring do not know what to do.
So they go to stay with some other people who look a bit like girls, who live in a place with trees. But they are not happy about either the heavy short man or the cool ring and they can't stay for long, so they have to leave. Also, one of the people who look a bit like girls is a beautiful woman but she does not want the cool ring. But she gives everyone a present before they go because she is very nice. And also the people who look a bit like girls give the group of friends some water rides and some nice food.
Then the group of friends ride the water for a long way past some big rocks that look like people. But the other old man (the one who did not fall down) has sent his big angry men after the group, and they chase them down the water.
Also, one of the men thinks the cool ring is very cool and what would be even cooler is if he had the cool ring himself instead of the short man. This causes problems and the short man has to run away from the group.
At this time the group of friends has to fight the big angry men chasing them, except for the short man's best friend who chases the short man instead. They kill lots of the big angry men but one of the big angry men has a stick that throws sticks with points and the stick points go into the bad man who wanted the ring. But he is good now and tries to stop the big angry men from taking the other two short men away except he dies from the sticks. But it takes three sticks to kill him because he is very strong.
The other man and the heavy short man and the man who looks a bit like a girl kill lots of the big angry men and then the man kills the big angry man with the stick that throws sticks with points. But the big angry men do take the other two short men (not the one with the cool ring though, which is good).
So all up it is more like a tie. The man and the heavy short man and the man who looks a bit like a girl think they should go and help the two short men that the big angry men took away, and let the short man with the cool ring and his friend go to the hot place under the high ground by themselves.
Permalink
This is the group of people who decide the things that we have to do, the things we can't do, and how some of your money will be spent. There are 650 of them.
We pick which people will decide things for us every so often. Usually we do that every five years. Most people pick the people who will decide things for us by which party they want to be deciding things.
The 650 people pick a smaller group of to decide most of important things. Some of the people will agree with that, and some of the people will not agree with that. They sort themselves into groups, one side agree with the smaller group, the other side does not agree with the smaller group. The side that agrees with the smaller group has to be the biggest, or we all have to pick a new group of people.
The smaller group will decide what important things they want to change. The whole group has to agree that those changes are a good idea. If too many of the people who are on the side that agrees with the smaller group, think the idea is a bad idea, then the change can't happen.
You can write to the person that you picked to decide things for you. You can ask them to say things, and do things, that help change things to be more like what you want.
Permalink
What's a job? When you need money to pay for things, you get someone to give you money for doing something. Most of the time that something is something you don't love, so you wouldn't do it for free, but it's not something you hate. You want this to keep happening over time, so you tell the person who gives you money that you'll keep on doing that thing you do as long as they pay you.
Permalink
The man who picks up the things we have thrown away because we don't like them any more, or have no more use for them, or because they are broken or spent, he's not coming any more. He has stopped working because he feels he should get something for his work that he doesn't get. Like more time off, or more money.
Permalink
This story is about a man who goes around inside dreams to make people think things that they do not really think. This is a bad idea because people don't like being told what to think, so many people are angry with the man. One day, someone with a lot of money asks the man to make another man have an idea. This is very hard, so the man has to get the best team together to help him. He picks a girl who is good at making up houses. He picks a man who is good at making sleep drinks. He picks a man who is good at being other people. He picks the man with a lot of money. And he picks his very best friend, which was a nice thing to do. Then they all get in a room with the other man and give him a drink that makes him go to sleep and have a strange dream. Everyone is in the dream! When you are in a dream, you have to look out, because the person might have bad things in their head that will GET YOU. Remember the first man? He has a crazy lady in his head, and if she gets you, she will make you stay in the dream all the time! Anyway. They find the man inside the dream, and make him have another dream. I KNOW! And then, inside THAT dream, they have ANOTHER dream! This all happens very fast, because time goes faster inside dreams, so in the real world it's only a short time, but inside all the dreams they have time for fights and running and chasing and fires. But LOOK OUT! It is the crazy lady! She wants the man to stay with her inside the dream, but the girl stops her. They get what they want inside the dream, but the money man has a bad problem, so the dream man stays inside the dream to help him. They both get REALLY OLD, but in the end, everyone wakes up and only a little time has passed. They are still in the room with the other man, but now the other man has the idea they wanted him to have. The man with the money makes it so the first man can go home and see his children! EXCEPT! Maybe this was all a dream as well? WHO KNOWS?
Permalink
The man glanced at the shadow. It was dark, a space in the light of the world. Black, like his heart if he was being true, but there was something nice about it. He looked at his watch. Time was not something he cared about, really, but it was always a help to be able to stand out when he needed to.
The shadow blinked, once. It had just been asked a question, something it had to seriously consider. The world was ending, quickly, but that man had no idea what time it was. The shadow had been asked to help the man, in any way possible. First, the light.
The shadow snapped its fingers, and the lights disappeared. The man looked up, just for a moment, before glancing at his watch again. This was not a normal watch. It was also not his, not exactly. She had promised it was dead, and when he had taken it, it had been. Now, however, it turned quietly, bright in the dark night.
"You of the shadow."
There was a pause, seconds of silence. The shadow waited.
"Yes?"
"What time is it?"
"About 7:30."
The man shook his head. He was late for dinner, then, and his friend would be angry. It was a few blocks away.
"Shadow."
"I've got a name, you know."
"Do you have a car?"
"What's my name?"
The man thought about it.
"Dark money."
"No. What? Really? You thought it would be Dark Money?"
"Look," said the man, "I am trying to use only normal ('common' isn't in the 'thousand') words, and there are not very many interesting names I can make out of them."
"Come to think of it," said the shadow, "I am not able to come up with a name for myself, either. You can call me Shadow."
"So now that that's finished, do you have a car?"
Help in any way possible. This was not what he thought it would be.
"Yes."
The car appeared in front of the two.
"I'm driving," said the shadow, and the man could only agree. What use was normal against a living shadow? It was a black car, long, with lines like Ms. Turner and fast for days.
"Notice the time," said the shadow, shadow hands holding the car straight. "It is 7:32. When we arrive at your friend's place, it will be only 7:28. Your watch is the key."
"That is stupid," said the man.
"Look," said the shadow, "I'm fucking trying to make this as easy as I can, okay? There are stories, songs about this day. More of my people have died in struggle against this day than your people can imagine. Fucking hell, I can shit out bad words all fucking day, but I can't use pretty words to explain my fear. You are the only thing holding the dark back. And I don't mean dark like me, I mean the real dark, the dark that will take you by the fucking neck and drag you into hell. Dark, kid, it's dark as a stupid mine on the fucking dark side of the sky."
The man opened his mouth to say something.
"Shut the fuck up, kid. 'Homophones', I think, are the key to some parts of this."
First of all, why was the shadow calling him kid? It was mean to someone his age, for he was a god. Second, this was something he sort of remembered from his past. The problem with being outside of time, of course, was that it was damn near not possible to remember what came from where.
The glass broke. The man/god looked down at his feet. There were pieces of glass, light glancing [I like glancing, a lot, I think I can make many uses of it] through with a bright smile of death.
"Shadow, I think they are smiling at me."
"My god! It is the glass of Mr. Arkturath! All hope is lost!"
"Shut the fuck up."
"Fuck you."
Then they ran into the dark and it began again.
Permalink
We drove to a town that is four hours away to stay in a nice place with two rooms and tiny bottles of drink in a cold box. There was a place down on the corner that we could buy coffee and all kinds of food and ices and it never closed. We went to look at crazy animals that are tiny and ones that fly and some that do not have legs or arms and some that were under the water. A big cat wanted to jump out of it's place and I'm sure it could have made the jump. Then the next night we went to see people we've heard of that make fun of really bad movies. It was not very full of people but we had to sit right next to them anyway but it was very funny and we laughed. The next night we saw a band from a funny show play music in a place with really good seating so no one was in your way. It was a band that plays very loud and fast and the guy from the show home movies is in it. I'd never heard of the other band but the guy was jumping around very funny and kept making stupid arm moves so we laughed at that. Also we went to a food place that looked like a home food place but was actually food from far away on the other side of the world. It was a surprise but it was pretty good stuff. The End.
Permalink
'Clouds': Drops of water form in the sky together, as thick smoke-like air. Their color gets darker if it will rain. They can seem or look like other things sometimes, if only because we pretend they do.
Permalink
Drag force: when things move through air, they have to touch it. Air is made up of lots of tiny little balls, and when something touches the balls, they make the thing slow down. This is because the thing then has to push the all the little balls out of the way which takes work. Imagine a car driving down a road. The car has to move through the air. It has to push all of the bits of air out of the way so that it can go forward. That slows the car down so you have to give it more food to let it keep going quickly.
Permalink
The water we use is cleaned by running through the ground. It runs into a big water body. There it gets warm from the sun and goes up to the sky. Then it goes into the air. It comes down again as rain. We get the rain and use it as our water. After we use it, we send it to the ground and is cleaned again. This is done again and again.
Permalink
Numbers can be put in four-sided boxes. Just like you can add and take away alone numbers, and make many times alone numbers, and share alone numbers between alone numbers, you can do things like this (but not just the same) to four-sided boxes of numbers. It is important that boxes of numbers can eat each other. Alone numbers can not eat each other.
Any thing that happens which looks like a line on a piece of paper can be made into a box of numbers. This makes boxes of numbers very strong. A big box of numbers can eat a small box of numbers and make another small box of numbers that means something. So a big box of numbers about babies can eat a small box of numbers about all the babies there are now, and make a small box of numbers about all the babies there will be tomorrow. Or a big box of numbers about where things are can eat a small box of numbers that says where one important thing is now, and make a small box of numbers that says where the important thing is tomorrow.
One big box of numbers can eat another big box of numbers (if it's not too big or not too small) and do what that box of numbers does on top of what it did to begin with. So a box of numbers about how many babies are going to be made can eat a box of numbers about what happens to babies after they are made, and say what is going to happen to babies that have not been made yet.
Permalink
The stars are very far away. We sometimes figure out how far away the stars are by looking at them from two different places and seeing how high up they are in the sky. We use what we know about three-sided things to learn how far away they are. The most far-away we can figure out needs two different places to look from that are very far away from each other, or very good man-made eyes in space. On this world we can only use this plan for stars that would take two or three tens of years for their light to reach us (light years), or with very good man-made eyes in space a ten and a half hundred light years, seeing how high up the stars are in the sky when the man-made space-eyes are on different sides of the sun.Some stars that have died will flash in space. How bright they are and how fast they flash is almost the same no matter where they are, so we can use this to figure out how far away they are, even if they are very, very, very far away. This lets us figure out how far away some of the most far away things in space are.
Permalink
a computer is something that will take and use whatever is given to it and give back what you need and expect at that moment. it can take what you want to give by means of touch, pressing keys, voice. each key has a different meaning to the computer. the computer will show all this for seeing or listening. the computer may also be used to talk to other computers. the computer can control other computers too. one can read, watch movies, listen to music, play games, write on a computer. some computers can be carried around. some computers are as big as rooms. computers are used to control many things.
Permalink
Thinking about Pretend Game Situations and Avoiding Moves that Make You Sad is a way for you to play a game against yourself in order to learn a game plan that is almost perfect. By almost perfect, I mean that if you play enough games against someone and add up the money you make and lose, your plan will never lose very much and eventually will not lose at all. That will be true even if you tell them what your plan is, and even if they are the best possible other player- that is, your worst case other player. To make computers good at playing Money-and-Cards, we train them how to play against themselves, so that they can find a good plan.
Pretend that you are playing a lot of games against someone. For each of those games, you each have a plan that tells you what to do, and you can change those plans over time. After a lot of games, you can look back at the games and your plans and think about some single other plan you could have used instead for all of the games. If there is another plan that would have made more money against the other player, then you would feel sad: you would wish that you had just used the other plan instead of what you did! And the other player can think the same about using their plans against you. Both of you would like to feel not sad about the plans that you used. What if you did find a way to pick or change your plans that eventually works as well as any one plan when you look back over the games? Eventually, you would not be very sad at all! If you and the other player can find a way to pick plans so that both of you are not sad, then a really good thing happens, called the Old-Person-Music-Idea (we don't know who to name it after, so we use a funny name). If two people play a lot of games and keep changing their plans, and both people are also not very sad at the end, then you can make a new plan for them that plays as if it just rolled a big die to pick from the plans they used at every step. That new plan will be almost perfect: no other plan will be able to beat it for much! And the more games the people play, the less sad they will be, and the closer to perfect the new plan will be.
So, to find a perfect plan, we need to find out how to pick plans (or how to change a plan in between games) so that eventually we will not be too sad about our plans. To do that, we will think about another way we can be sad. Just like being sad about the plans you used for lots of games, you can also think about how sad you are because of the moves you made at each situation inside a plan. If one move usually looks better than the moves your plans actually said to make in a situation, then you would be sad and just should have made the good move more often! In 2007, we showed that if you can learn how to not be very sad about the moves at each situation in a plan, then you will also not be very sad about the plan as a whole, and that would make our roll-a-big-die plan perfect.
All we need to do, then, is learn how to not be sad about the moves we make at each situation in a game. You can do that by playing pretend games against yourself. You will have a plan for each player, and in each game, you will take turns to make one plan better at a time. For one plan, think about each situation in the game, then think about each move, and make a guess (not always too high or too low!) about how much money each move would make. Then figure out how often your plan makes each move, and from that, how much money your plan makes. Take the second number away from the first, and that is how sad you are that you didn't make that move. Lets call that number "Sad". Times it by how often the plan of the other player (remember, you are playing against yourself) would make moves to take you to this situation and call that "Pretend Sad". For each move, add up the Pretend Sad over all of the games you played so far, and call that "Added Up Pretend Sad". You can use that number to make your plan better for the next game. If Added Up Pretend Sad is less than nothing, you should not make that move at all next time! If not, then have the plan make the move with its share of the Added Up Pretend Sad from the other moves.
Changing your plan in this way eventually makes you not sad about your moves, and that makes you not sad about your plans. And if you pretend playing two of your own plans against each other, and keep getting less and less sad about each plan, then by the Old-Person-Music-Idea you will keep getting closer to a perfect plan.
Permalink
The play is about a lot of school girls on the other side of the world, who go missing at a big rock while on a trip. Everyone starts to look for them, such as MR Albert and MR Michael, who are very concerned for some reason. The police man, MR Bumpher, asks everyone about what they know, but doesn't get any good answers. MR Michael talks MR Albert into searching for the girls. MR Albert then leaves to go excuse the missing MR Michael. Later that night, MR Albert hears MR Michael's voice, and runs back to the rock. When he gets there, he finds MR Michael, who has also found MRS Irma.
Permalink
The longest story is still made up of many little steps and you have to pass through all of these turning points in order to tell a complete story.
Permalink
Most people think that 'autonomy' is the right of someone to say how they will live their life, with no other person allowed to stop them. The idea is that there is no person who can say they can't live their life that way as long as they don't stop other people from living the way the other people want to. But the problem is that if you want something that stops someone else from having what they want, and one of you gets what you want, the other one of you will lose this right. Maybe it is better to think of the two of you as one group and do something else that lets the group get the best thing. You have to decide what is more important, having your own way or helping the group (which you are part of, so you are helping yourself a bit here, too). Is it better that the whole group of people works together even if one person at a time doesn't get exactly what they want? Does this right go away if this happens? or do we have to change what we mean when we talk about this right? People can want something that is best for the group or for someone else, but not the best thing for themselves and still be using this right. Also, some people in the group have more need to have what is best for them, because it will hurt them more than it will hurt other people in the group if they don't get it. Or it will hurt the whole group more if they don't get it than it will hurt the whole group if the other people in the group don't get what they want.
Permalink
This thing I will talk about is the right of someone to say how they will live their life, with no other person allowed to stop them. The idea is that there is no person who can say they can't live their life that way as long as they don't stop other people from living the way the other people want to. But the problem is that if you want something that stops someone else from having what they want, and one of you gets what you want, the other one of you will lose this right. Maybe it is better to think of the two of you as one group and do something else that lets the group get the best thing. You have to decide what is more important, having your way or getting along. Is it better that the whole group of people works together even if one person at a time doesn't get exactly what they want? Does the thing I am talking about stop working if this happens? or do we have to change what we mean when we talk about this right? people can want something that is best for the group or for someone else and still be using this right.
Permalink
Two people see each other and stuff in their bodies causes changes in their brains. These changes in their brains make changes in their bodies and it feels very good. Sometimes they go on to fuck and fight and hope and trip and dream together.
This is love.
Permalink
Some things that are hard are sometimes easy if there are the right relationships. We like things that look like trees that have small join places. Here is an easy way to get the trees when you have the right relationships.
Permalink
I work at a place where many people try to understand hard questions. The questions are about how things work, what stuff the world is made out of, what makes people sick or well, understanding things that happened a long time ago or in books, and about how people live and work together. In the part I work in, we use computers to store numbers and words that the understanding people make when they are trying to understand stuff, so that they don't run out of space, or lose their numbers and words, and so that they can share their numbers and words with other understanding people and with the rest of the world.
Permalink
To be or not to be, that is the question:
Whether it is better in the mind to be hurt
By the pain that life throws at you,
Or to take arms against life's troubles
And end them by force? To die, to sleep;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart's pain and all the many shocks
That come to living humans. It is an ending
everyone should want. To die, to sleep;
To sleep: perhaps to dream: yes, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have slipped out of our bodies,
Must make us stop and think. That's the reason
That we keep going through life's problems.
For who would take time's hurting again and again,
The mean man's bad act, the high man's bad words,
The pain of one-sided love, the wait for truth,
The wrongs of those in power and the bad things
That good people should not have to take,
When he himself might end it with a cut?
Who would carry something heavy,
Would tired and hot pull it through life,
But that the fear of something after death,
The strange place from which
No one returns, holds the will in check
And makes us stay with the problems we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
In this way our minds keep us in fear;
And in this way our own true power
Is made soft and sick by thinking.
And great important plans
By such thoughts are turned and lost
And are not acted on.
Oh! Here is the beautiful girl!
In your songs be all my faults remembered.
Permalink
The money-and-cards game is a hard game played by good humans and computers. In this last book for after college (but not yet doctor) school, we will talk about four ways to make a computer that can play the money-and-cards game as good as the best humans. The first way is to find a plan for the game that will almost do no worse than tie against any other player, even if you tell them your plan. The second way works if you know the plan that another player will use. You can then learn your own plan that will beat their plan the most. But there is a problem: your plan might not be very good against other people's plans, and you might lose a lot. The third way is in between: if you think you know someone's plan, you can learn a plan that beats them for a lot and not lose too much to anyone else if you are wrong. Finally, you can have many plans and learn which one is best while you play a game. To show you how good these ideas are, we used them to make a computer that beat all of the other computers in the 2007 Computer Money-and-Cards Match, and also did pretty well against two good humans in the First Man-Computer Money-and-Cards Match.
Permalink
Food, to many people, is a very good thing.
Take my favorite. First, you take a whole, and make it into 8 pieces. Add on some red stuff, from the ground, you know. Then, add on some old animal piss. The white stuff, usually; you know you like it. Then, a topping or two (or three, or more!), but avoid what your friend suggests.
And that's it! Up to 8 pieces of food, coming your way. (I don't like people who go with more than 8, makes me scream for all that is good in this world).
Permalink
I approach my computer. I stare - so many words. Such a bad dream. Sure, I made this, I wrote it all, but that was months ago. Now? The most important part of my job, sure, it lets the whole place run, sure, it adds the money up, sure, it tells us all of our work, sure. But I was told to write it all over again. By tomorrow. It's not possible! Fix what I can, leave some bad parts, be better tomorrow than we were before, maybe. I can even save our business. But I can't fix the whole thing! Oh well. Time to grab some coffee, stay up all night, and hope to live the day, dead tired.
Permalink
I like to eat that one food that is round, but the middle is also round but the food isn't thereit's gone in the middle. This thing is made more brown after you make it into two halves, then you take it out of the thing that makes it more brown.
I like to put a thing on it that a lot of people don't like because they don't think it is good. It's not really thick and some people make it by taking the thing from a green ground thing that makes more green ground things and turning it into a thing to eat by hitting it a lot. To be clear, this is not the thing that comes from animals that make white drinkit's a thing that's eaten a lot by people in the Middle-direction-for-right.
I also put a thing that's eaten by smaller animals on it that's green and most people think it only goes in the type of food that's not bad for you. I just like it.
To top it all off, there is a red thing to put on food that comes in a bottle with a green top. The bottle has a picture of an animal that makes loud noises in the morning on it, and a lot of letters that I can't read. It's so good. I might as well drink it.
This is one of my favorite things. I like it so much I ate it two times today.
Permalink
It is night, it is the no-light, and in the night they dance and dance and dance. Where their feet fall is new life, growing things that push from the dead ground and reach for the coming day. They work in the quiet dark places, but when the light comes, when the day comes, they sleep and dream of the sun and a wide world full of life.
Permalink
Different rocks are good at doing different things. One kind of rock can move other kinds of rocks without touching them, using a force you can't see. In this first rock, all the tiny pieces inside are lined up in the same direction. This makes one end of the rock the front face, and the other end of the rock the back face. The force you can't see in the first rock makes the tiny pieces inside the second rock want to line up in the same direction.
Permalink
Acting is an important thing, because it helps people to understand what it's like to be other kinds of people. If you go to a show, you will see men and women playing other kinds of men and women, and you will both have a chance to enjoy some fun through their hard work and get a picture of how different people might live their lives. Another thing that might happen if you see good acting is you will have a new understanding of how easy it is to change things about yourself. You can change the way you walk, talk, and even the way you feel in the name of acting. And if you can change those things while you are acting, you might be able to change them in real life, too.
Permalink
That's just the sun, setting in a different place.
Things work in another way here. At home it would look like morning but we haven't slept for hours. I think I just told you that I don't know what lies across the water, behind the sun. No, your mind is not playing with you. No, this is not a part of the game, though getting here was.
Strange, how come you believe your sun to be the only one?
You asked:
"What's on your mind?"
"My mind? Now?"
"Yes, this silent stranger kind of thing you've got going can't be all there is, can it?"
"Well, I want to say something when I talk."
"Sure, sure. Just cut the deep-talk, please. Give me straight-talk."
"..."
"..."
"If I told you there's a door that you pass every day on your way somewhere else, a door that holds something not of this world, would you follow?"
"Cut the deep-talk I said! Follow who?"
"Follow me."
"God! You make less sense every day, you know that?"
"I know, but would you follow?"
"I guess... but I'm not sure where you're going with this."
"This is not a guessing-game type of thing."
"But this is one of those games that people say you play people all the time, isn't it?"
"Yes. But it is not a guessing-game."
"I'm still not sure if it was a good idea to get around with you."
"..."
"..."
"..."
"So... where does this door lead?"
"To a world."
What made you think your world was the only world? The sun falls under the water. It's our sun now.
Permalink
Grown up people like to drink nice wet stuff that makes them happy and then makes them fall over. In the morning after drinking the nice water they aren't happy because the nice water has turned mean and made their heads hurt.
Permalink
I'm not sure I ever will, but I've always wanted to make someone feel something at the bottom of their stomach reading something that I wrote. I've read books that have made me cry, made me feel what it's like to lose, and hate, and love. I want to do that. When I write about love in a book, I want to be able to make other people live in the moment of the people in my head. I want them to understand what it feels like to fall in love with someone, slowly or quickly, it doesn't matter; that moment when you feel your heart slam in your chest at the very thought of that person. When your brain can't find the words to explain what's happening, and you can only feel your body hurt all over in the best of ways. So many other have felt that slamming, that hurting, that amazing feeling that drops to the bottom of your stomach and grows out to your arms, your fingers, your feet. That warm flash of nervous, but more excited, so it's okay. That feeling in the dark at the movies, your hands touching, that little kid thing that you do even if you're nearly an grown up when it happens. That calm that comes over you when you can finally touch their hand. How a kiss can make you forget, for just that moment, that you just lost your job that day, or that this morning one of your tires lost its air and left you walking the rest of the way home. Everything's just fine, so long as you can get a hug from them at the end of the day.
I can't use the big words that I'm used to when I'm telling you right now what I want to make people feel. The big words that explain all these little moments, that let you know that I've been reading books for the last twenty or more years. Show and don't tell, right? This has been fun. I hope one day I can let someone feel all this through my writing.
Permalink
One afternoon, there will be a beautiful dream painted across the sky. It will dance like the wind, and fall into your eyes. The dream will take up home in your body. It will work within you and control your every move. You will never see it coming- but do not fear, there is no point- not a single person has escaped it's hold. You will find it within you one day. You will find it within you, and you will be glad. You'll finally know what everyone has be talking about. You'll finally know love.
Permalink
I sit alone in this crowded room. Everyone is dancing and talking, but I just sit here drinking in the corner. A light jumps from the hanging ball. I close my eyes and keep them closed. Listening, I can hear the beat of the music. It doesn't stop. I try to hear bits of conversation, but the noises all become one never ending sound. My eyes still closed, I fall asleep.
My dreams are filled with faces, bright red against the black nothing behind them. They stare at me, question me. I'm out of place. They close in and I'm caught. I try to breathe but hands press down on my chest. I try to push them away but my arms are forced against the wall, my legs stuck to the floor. The faces laugh as I struggle. They drive themselves into me and I shut my eyes as hard as I can.
The laughing goes away. It's quite, but I keep my eyes closed. I should never have come here. The people and the parties are not me. I've left that life. However, when that phone rings and the voice on the other end calls me out, something inside me takes over. Some being inside, one that I thought I killed years ago, makes it's way back. That used to be how I lived, jumping from house to house, bed to bed. I've thrown up in almost every bathroom on this street.
But I've moved passed that. I've grown and gotten older. I have a job now, a real one. The days of waking up not knowing what numbers are on the front of the house are over. These people aren't my friends. They don't know the changes I've made. They just want to keep their lives the same and they don't care about breaking mine. I'm stronger than this and I need to get out of here.
I open my eyes and I'm greeted by the grinning faces. Their skin is pulled tight. I pull myself to my feet and push them away, avoiding their eyes. Hands are grabbing at my feet and I trip, but I stand up and keep walking. Finally I see a door, it's handle is so close I can almost grab it. A hand holds tight onto my shoulder. It turns me around and stares straight into my eyes.
I'm wake up, now in the middle of the dancing crowd. A face is looking at me. Their lips move but I can't hear what they're saying. Bodies are moving around me, following the sound of the music. As I try to see through the group of people, I feel something warm against my ear. Someone's cheek is brushed against mine as I hear them speak.
"Let's to go to my room."
Permalink
He said she was beautiful, and he meant it. She was the kind of woman he never knew he was searching for. Her skin was dark from years spent under the sun, but soft like a child's, and her hair was the color of coffee. It was her eyes, though, that did it; clear and green and always laughing. Her eyes held the answers to all of life, he thought. He knew the moment he saw her that she would be his.
He said she was perfect, and he meant it. She was both young and old; a child's heart with a woman's blush. She would call him close, then send him away without a care. She said she was his, then changed her mind in a moment.
He said he would do anything for her, and he meant it. When she said go, he went. When he came back, she laughed and asked why. He told her he loved her. She cried softly, "You stupid boy." When she finally said stay, he told her, "Always." He took off his green jacket, threw his gun to the water. He stayed through the night, held her close until morning.
He said he would return, and he meant it. When the men came to find him, with their guns and green jackets, he whispered, "Wait for me." With not a tear in her clear, green eyes, she whispered back, "Always."
He left with the others, took his place in line, to fight for a cause that never was his.
She said she would wait, and she meant it. When he finally came back, she fell to her knees. Four years gone by, so long to wait. He looked just the same as the last day she saw him, but a little more tired and no longer a boy. He sighed at the sight of her and said, "I meant it."
Permalink
Red. Blood-red. This was her only memory of the trip. Her foot stuck under the remain of the car, her whole body in pain, and someone's teeth, red on the red ground. She did not want to turn her head to see where they were coming from. Even the silence was red. No groan and no cry, only the silence of the dead that would never come out of their last house, that they just laid by the road.
Permalink
During the cold time, when the sun was small and the wind was big, the bed still felt warm like a dog was there, but there was nothing-- only two cold feet and two long legs and one sad girl.
Permalink
It was like looking at a dog, but the dog was made of nothing. It still smelled like a dog and ate like a dog and ran like a dog, but there was only air. And it still felt like a dog, too. That was worst of all.
Permalink
I listen to the rain, a pause in the middle of the night, and it is the only sound outside. The animals are in, sleeping in. I watch the smoke fly from my lips into the water falling from the sky. It's lost in the moment, it's music is quiet, even next to the rain. The light of a TV through a window across the way flashes in time, giving the rain a dance. Those that do not sleep stay inside, because what use is it to be out in the dark? All the things that fill our eyes with light and noise are inside. The outside is quiet enough to hear the sound of a breath on a smoke, to hear the beats of rain on roads, house tops, ground, and car. Though, we have control over light in the night outside. Our lights light up the black parts of the great night light when low and black out the stars where ground meets sky. Even on the edge of town.
Permalink
She could not feel the cold fear settle into her body by the time she had lit the last stick, but the match in her hand held a warm light that she could feel in the dark corners of her heart. She had taken them from the kitchen long ago, hiding them in her pockets every day in some small half-forgotten thought, but at the time she only knew that they were matches, and she wasn't supposed to have them but she wanted that small, bright fire that she could hold between her hands, since night-lights weren't allowed. Child that she was, she wondered when she would be allowed to leave and stop pretending to find sleep that would never come, for the night was deep and full of fears just outside of her sight, dancing at the corners of her eyes just as she looked away. She pretended not to know that the door was locked from the other side. And so she looked only at the match and its small, bright fire, forgetting her fears could reach where the light fell, and that a still bigger fear lay past the turn of the door's handle.
Permalink
The problem with this box is that you can only write the top words in it. You can't write all the pretty words that you know and other people don't seem to use so much. Sometimes, you want other people to use those beautiful words, because you think that would make things nicer over all -- or at least, things would feel a whole lot more interesting for you. Sometimes, you even feel sad because no one else seems to use those words that you like so much, and because they look at you strange when you use them. You end up feeling like none of the other people understand you. You think that those people are inside a box, and you are outside of it. You might even tell yourself that you like being outside where you can use any words you want, but you know that what you really want is to be inside with the others.
Permalink
"There is some strange problem with these kinds of things. It's hard to think of something to write about. First, I thought about what I should write. I thought quite a while but it's like when you tell someone you can speak in a different tongue. And their first question is always "Say Something!"
And then you are forced to reply "Like what?" Then you find out they don't know either. They eventually settle on something like "Say I'm cool." or "I love you." You really never get to show what you know.
The problem might be that there is no one to talk to, you are just going on to yourself about whatever it is. Anything bright you might want to say probably needs someone to throw ideas at. What they say changes where you go next. This little pack of words has no where to go at this point. Signing out. "
Permalink
"He was drinking again. He may not have been ready to be a father, but that didn't meant he wanted his first chance taken away so suddenly."
Permalink
Where we thought there was nothing, there in fact was. Only after seeing the end did we finally see the beginning. All that was good and whole was now only a mirror of our small world; day and night, nothing but glass now, where the sun falls from the sky in long, sad lines. We pushed on though, through the night and into morning, where the cold didn't bite, where the water lands sweet on our lips to drink, where the wind dies deep under rock and ground. This place was our home once, but now, only silence; we, the last, have made it so.
Permalink
I put myself in a never ending struggle.
These days putting food into my mouth is not an easy job. I always have to think about the ending of what goes in. No, I am not talking about the dropping out of our ass. I am talking about this stupid thing (grabs his stomach), this stupid thing (points at his heart), and finally this stupid thing (points at his head).
You see, ever since I was called as that not so pretty animal you more often see as part of a breakfast than as the four legged animal that it is, I feel a break within myself every time I eat something that makes my mouth and stomach happy.
My mouth and stomach being happy meant my heart was not strong. It allowed them to be happy, although it knows that it will make heart not so happy later and definitely piss off the head.
But today, you see, I didn't care. I did not allow my mouth and stomach from being happy for too long. Forget the head and the heart. I just really wanted something that would make my mouth and stomach very happy.
Can you guess? I wanted this large round brown thing (it used to be white but it turns brown when you work with it for this food) that is soft as you can imagine. Wait, I'm not done yet. On top of it there is warm red stuff all over it. Still not done. On top of the red stuff, they would put this nice white stuff all over it to complete the three into one.
WAIT. WAIT. Still not done yet. To make it even better, they usually put more stuff on top. I had mine with pieces of that animal people call me (but it was a different cut). And to make it even cooler, I had the edge of the brown round thing filled with the white thing that was on top of the red thing.
I ordered it and it came to my house quick. I admit, this may sound weird, but when I smelled it... it was like whispering to my head and heart - shut up. Just. Shut. Up.
Snap. There goes the senses.
I opened the box and saw the present inside. It was cut into one... two... three... does it matter? It's all mine.
The first bite - YES! YES! BABY! YES! MORE! MORE!
The second bite - Excuse me, as I start on my third bite.
Piece number three - my head and my heart tries to grab and return my senses a little. Too little too late. Chance had left with the wind long ago.
Piece number four - Don't care. I already gone this far.
Piece-I-ate-the-whole-thing - Can you hear that? The silence after a great struggle? Of course you can't. Because I complete this fight with the air crack from my ass. It's my sweet kiss to my head, my heart, and all those people who told me not to enjoy what I enjoy.
I stand with small remaining pieces of my struggle around my mouth. And I stand TALL. And I will continue to stand tall today, tomorrow, and ever after.
Call me an animal if you want. Call me THAT animal if you want. But you can't take away from me this feeling.
Feeling of being full.
Permalink
This game isn't easy to understand.
Two teams of five.
Five people on each side.
Some of the people that play have great power, or are very fast. Some of the people can even make themselves disappear, or make fire fall from the sky.
You never know what you'll see.
Here's the thing, though. The teams? They hate each other. They want each other dead, killed. Gone.
So they must fight.
So, what are they going to fight on? You need a ring or something, right? Like boxing?
Well, the playing field is an area with four sides. There are three roads, each leading to the other team's marked area. Think of each team's marked area as a home.
You know how when you go home after a very cold day, a cup of hot coffee makes you feel like new? Or when you run inside after a hot and dry afternoon, a drink of ice cold water brings you back to life?
It's like that.
Each team's home rests in the corners of the playing field--they face each other. Each team's home is watched day and night by tall, rock-like things. They guard their homes, keeping an eye out for anything on the other team's side. If they see something, they attack it, without resting until it has either killed the player, or the player has killed it.
Every once and a while, a few small, computer controlled guys will pop out of each team's , marked area. You know, the ones in the corner of the playing field that I mentioned earlier.
Each team tries to make money by killing the small, computer controlled guys on the other's teams side.
Permalink
The thing about the world that makes it interesting is that humans are amazing, but we don't worry much about the amazing world we are hurting to get amazing things done.
Permalink
The small animal band that made music were very big. Many people thought they were good and still do. They were perhaps the best ever, and they still make people think about them when they make music.
Permalink
The is one thing the I, and I think other people too, hate the most. It is the moment when you realize that you are alone in the room. It is the day that you suddenly understand - there is nothing and no one in this world who loves me. I am alone, and in this world no one really knows how much i want to be with someone else. What I want is a girlfriend. Or maybe just a friend. But no man or woman wants to ever call me. So i sit alone in this dark room of mine, not leaving it, looking at a tv. Maybe i should go out. Oh, look, breaking bad...
Permalink
The fun picture place that is under the thing of the world wide computer thing, is rather... what's the word? Cool. I have spent a lot of my time on the thing, and I have found that I really like it. Why, you ask? I will make a thing for you to read.First, it is really fun. Second, it is great. Third, I like funny pictures.I know that these are just my likes of the thing, but you should try it out because (as I said) it's fun. And cool! People who don't get the thing must give it some time, because it is really great.
Permalink
The one part of a hundred parts of a money is bad. To make a one part, it takes two one parts. Money is for taking and giving things. The one part is not good for taking and giving things. It is too small.
Permalink
Things kill other things, and then the first thing gets points for killing the second thing. The points make the first thing stronger, but the points are different if the second thing is different. However, you can't have more than a number of points in one area, and you can't have more than a number of points all together. Some things give more points than other things, and are also easier to kill. So most people, when they are getting points, only kill the easy-to-kill things. This lets them get points fast. Different things want different points, and different numbers of points too.
Permalink
What if we had a box, but the box was a form we had not seen? How could we tell how big the box is? It is easy! All you need is the idea for the box. In other words what you add to make the box, like one and three and two of a letter times the same letter. The answer is to add very small parts of the box over and over. Imagine a box that starts at one foot and ends at three feet. Just take the one and three and two of a letter times the same letter, turn it into four times the letter, and put in one foot for the letter. Then put in three feet for the letter, take away the one foot answer, and sweet! You have the answer!
Permalink
Learning how to use a car can take time. If you are new to this, find a good teacher who can show you all the important parts in a nice, clear way.
Permalink
Music is grouped sound and silence.
Permalink
Numbers are things that we do stuff to. Sometimes, we want numbers that are different than other numbers. When we want a number that is not a number we have right now, we make it up. If you think about it, this is something we do all the time, even with normal guys like two or three, which we made up so we have an answer to "one add one." If we think about this real hard, we can make up lots of things that will help with finding answers to other questions we might have, like "a number times that number take away five." Thinking about these new numbers is a fun thing to do sometimes.
Permalink
One day, small guys decided to join together and make up the world. These small guys were smaller than anything that we have ever seen. But they are very important because they make up who we are. They are all around us and are very strong. Without them, we can not live! They are in our food, our air, our water. As of right now, you are touching many of these small guys, even if you do not move. But if these guys decide to break up, the whole world will go crazy! We would not be able to live. The smallest things, smaller than anything that you can think of, are very important.
Permalink
He went to the food store, but when he arrived he noticed that the food was all bad, so he decided to go home.
Permalink
It makes a loud noise often when it is going to rain and there is sometimes a flash of light at the same time.
Permalink
It is a game with many ways to play. You can hide from people, or kill them, or control computers to kill them. It takes place many years from now. You are a man who his half computer. You work for people who control the world. There are people who don't like the people you work for, and it turns out they are right so you can join them. There are many things going on and many groups who have plans.
Permalink
If he had decided only on the look on their faces, then he might have been let down a while before. By taking into thought all the signs that the people put off, he was able to decide that he could probably push it one step further. With a snap of his fingers he took another number off. It was all part of the plan. Slowly he dragged them towards numbers that they could more easily accept. The man on the other side of the desk paused only slightly as he signed his name on the dark black line.
Permalink
I listen to the rain, a pause in the middle of the night, and it would be the only sound outside. The animals are in, sleeping in. I watch the smoke fly from my lips into the water falling from the sky. It's lost in the moment, it's music is quiet, even next to the rain. The light of a TV through a window across the way flashes in time, giving the rain a dance. Those that do not sleep stay inside, because what use is it to be out in the dark? All the things that fill our eyes with light and noise are inside. The outside is quiet enough to hear the sound of a breath on a smoke, to hear the beats of rain on roads, house tops, ground, and car. Though, we have control over light in the night outside. Our lights light up the black parts of the great night light when low and black out the stars where ground meets sky. Even on the edge of town.
Permalink
I have to admit that I am afraid of the fact that I am in love with you. It was never a part of the plan, but it happened anyway. If I were to be true to myself, I would have to state that there is a part of me that is tied to you. My heart and mind are owned by no one but you.
This love we share is more the dreams that I imagined; it is growing and changing every day. Every moment.
Permalink
I want to go to the kitchen and make coffee. I plan on warming the water on high. I will break coffee in a breaking thing. The coffee will be put in a glass and the water will be put on the coffee.
The broken coffee will wait with the water for some time. Five minutes of waiting, and then press the broken coffee and it will make all the water black. I place the black coffee water into another glass from which I can drink. Fuck yes!
Permalink
I think knowing things is hard because of how big the number of things you can know is.
Permalink
For my job, I find out what most other people are looking for when they have questions. Then, I have to make sure we (at my office) give them the very best answer for their questions. After that, it is time to talk to the computers and make sure that they understand that our answers are the best answers for those same questions. If we do this right, it makes the computers give my work more people's attention. Then that gives my office more money.
Permalink
Death: To fall asleep for the last time.
Permalink
Game people play where they run on a field with a ball and have to get it in a thing. Being tall helps.
Permalink
All of the sweets in the world are made out of animals. I hope you have a happy day. Perhaps you could not do the thing that responds wrong to stupid words.
Permalink
A quick cat jumped over the water. The dog laughed. A man ran down the road.
Permalink
The fun picture place that is under the thing of the world wide computer thing, is rather... what's the word? Cool. I have spent a lot of my time on the thing, and I have found that I really like it. Why, you ask? I will make a thing for you to read. First, it is really fun. Second, it is great. Third, I like funny pictures. I know that these are just my likes of the thing, but you should try it out because (as I said) it's fun. And cool! People who don't get the thing must give it some time, because it is really great.
Permalink
Telling what you mean is a hard thing to do. That is why we have more than a hundred hundreds number of words.
Permalink
TODAY IS A GOOD DAY
Permalink
When the body's works are thick, blood can't get to the brain. Then you talk funny and your arms and legs go bad. Your face gets weird, and you forget things. You must go to the doctor soon, or you might die.
Permalink
We work on stopping people being sick with body growing without control. We use small bits of stuff made in other things that make you sick in the stomach.
Permalink
School girls drive in cars for fighting and use them to fight each other. They fight each other to get to the top of the group. They also eat sweets that look like fighting cars and buy things to make their fighting cars look nice. The girl who the story is about doesn't like fighting cars because her family really like it and she has bad memories of it.
Permalink
My book is about a man who works for people from outer space who have taken over the world. The man joins a team of especially trained police men who track down bad guys for the space men. The bad guys that he is trying to track down are humans who don't like the space men and want to make them leave the world. Eventually the man leans that maybe the people he is looking for aren't so bad after all, and he joins them to help make the space men go home.
Permalink
Money does not mean love
Permalink
Here in our home land, a lot of mothers die while pushing out their baby out of their body. So we made this thing that can help them in this happening.
The thing that we made can get the mother's and baby's heart beat. It can also know how often the time when the place where the baby lives becomes small. And it can also get the force of the heart in pushing the blood.
The thing is also able to talk with other things of the same kind. So, the person who helps in this happening can ask for help from a doctor in a far away place. place
Permalink
It was a long afternoon. He looked at his girlfriend, who lay beside him.
The sun was to set in an hour. They would be here soon.
The first watch always came at sun down, the second three hours later.
They would have to be fast, to get away in time.
They leaned against the wall. Although the city is where they hid, it was also the worst place to be when the watch came. If they hid in the outside, it would be far worse. The first look out flew by. He began to time the fly by. "One... two...", and another went by. And another. They moved. From cover to cover, they moved. Soon they were out of the watch, deep in the tall grey city. He held himself high. They were safe, for now.
Permalink
It figures out how much a thing is changing at a time. It's the same one for every number in the whole thing, and you can use it for lots of different things, even in number class at school. You can guess, but you can only get close that way. Instead, for single-named numbers, use the Power thing: just times the number in front by the little number in the upper right, then take one away from the little number. If that number is smaller than one, it's okay to put a line in front of it, because that makes it a number less than nothing. Wow! You have the number that says how much another number is changing at any time. You are so good at numbers!
Permalink
I can talk about many hard to understand things. One of them is stuff, and how sometimes stuff can be hard, but it can be easy if you think about it. Things are different from stuff, and can be enjoyed without thinking about it at all. Some people like stuff, while other people think things are better.
Permalink
I can not add two and two together because doing that is hard. Adding and taking away is hard all the time. This makes me sad. I made brown stuff go into the round thing that has water.
Permalink
I study how people get sick and what makes them get sick. By changing what people do, people can not get sick as often and won't have to go to the doctor as often.
Permalink
Deep under the ground is stuff that can be used to make our buses and cars run. People have been bringing this stuff up from the ground for years. But getting to it is very hard. Years ago, some people learned a new way to get to the stuff. The trouble is, when the stuff comes up, sometimes it makes people sick, and sometimes it hurts our water. Sometimes the ground even shakes! Other people want everyone to stop bringing the stuff up from the ground until we can figure out a way to keep all people and water safe.
Permalink
My job is to tell computers how to do things that they do. I write plans for the computer to follow.
When I was at the school before the one I am at now, there was a man who was second from the top of a group of four ten-hundred people. He wanted to read Plans of the Day on his computer.
So I wrote a plan to make my computer send a Plan of the Day to his computer every morning at oh five hundred. My plan let him read the Plan of the Day on his phone, too.
Permalink
 is a number that is a round thing's outside line over its line across. The number is close to 3.14159. It has been written using the old letter "" since the middle of the 1800 year.  is not a normal number, which means that it not able to be made exactly as one number over another (such as 22/7 or other numbers over numbers that are used a lot to get close to ); so, its number with points shown type never ends and never repeats. And,  is a not normal number  a number that is not able to times by it to make any not none numbers add set having normal times numbers. The not normal type of  shows that there is no way to answer the very old problem of make four-sided the round thing with a pointed letter twenty-two and straight-edge. The numbers in the number with points shown type of  appear to be not the same, although no fact showing thing of this supposed not the same has yet been found.
Permalink
You have probably never killed a half-cat. Well, someone and he is more talked about than you will ever be.
Permalink
Writing a story isn't that hard. Start with an idea, any idea you can think of, from school, from life, from the world. Anything. Use that idea, focus it to form something bigger, grow an entire world from it, and turn it into a world. Once you have this world, you're ready. Now write. Easy, no? However, building a story is not only focused around an idea. True, without ideas, you can't make a story have meaning. However, you also need a kind of love for the idea behind your story. With this, you put parts of yourself into the piece too, making it mean something not only to you, but to others as well. The love you put into it comes through, and people notice that. Let yourself come out in your writing and show the world who you are. Your pieces are all parts of yourself. Don't lose yourself within the words; instead, find yourself in them.
Permalink
Building a story is not only focused around an idea. True, without ideas, you can't make a story have meaning. However, you also need a kind of love for the idea behind your story. With this love, you put parts of yourself into the piece too, making it really mean something not only to you, but to others as well. The love you put into it can come through and people will notice that. Let yourself come out in your writing and show the world who you are. These stories are all parts of yourself. Don't lose yourself in the words; find yourself.
Permalink
The rock under his back gave up its bother as he sat up to look around. In front of him was a black body of water. It ran away from him, into nothing, where it met with an empty sky. The waves met the land with anger, as if the water had lost everything that gave it reason. There was nothing else but dark. Nothing that he could see, at least. There was no where for him to be. Even though he had no idea where he was, he felt as if he was not supposed to be there. There was nothing here: no life, no death, no thoughts save his own. He put his foot forward, empty in step, walking toward anything he could find.
Permalink
'Reddit' is a place on the big thing that joins all the computers together. People use it to share the news, crazy ideas, and also pictures of cats.
Permalink
The movie that I will see is not a very good movie. The way that the story moves along is not very good, and does not make a lot of sense. The woman that we see a lot of is not a very good story person, as she is mean and doesn't change along the story. The way it looks is also very funny, and not in a good way. The say a lot of the reasons why people pay money to see them is because the boy people are good looking so girls like to look at them. They also say it's because girls like the love story that they see in the story between the one girl and the other guys.
Permalink
Something that helps people find ways from one point to another without using their own stuff to go from that one point to that another point. This something has been made with the use of a computer that can be used by other people without touching that same computer using their own computers. People are given a drawing of the world where they can point out their starting position and their ending position and probably middle points.
Permalink
Here in our home land, a lot of mothers die while pushing out their baby out of their body. So we made this thing that can help them in this happening.
The thing that we made can get the mother's and baby's heart beat. It can also know how often the time when the place where the baby lives becomes small. And it can also get the force of the heart in pushing the blood.
The thing is also able to talk with other things of the same kind. So, the person who helps in this happening can ask for help from a doctor in a far away place.
Permalink
To make sleep-and-stupid-making drink use brown ground-food pieces and green smell-good bits and water and live eat-sweet-stuff things. Make the water some-hot for one hour with the brown ground-food pieces inside. Pull out the brown ground-food pieces from now-brown-and-sweet water, make water all-the-way-hot for one hour and add green smell-good bits at some times. Pull out the green smell-good bits and make the water cold. Add the live eat-sweet-stuff things and wait one or two weeks. The eat-sweet-stuff things will eat the sweet stuff in the water and make sleep-and-stupid-making stuff. Put sleep-and-stupid-making drink in small bottles and wait one week for a pop noise when you open a bottle. Have a party, drink some sleep-and-stupid-making drink, become sleep-and-stupid-made.
Permalink
It is a game about a guy who wears red clothes. He can run left or right and jump. He can kill bad guys by jumping on top of them. He can also break blocks with his head. He can get powers which make him big or let him make fire. He must run through many worlds to save his girlfriend from the big bad guy.
Permalink
A game where man throws ball to other men on his team. He can also hand ball to other men on his team. They are all trying to cross the line at the end of the field. There are other men on the other team who want to stop the first team. They hit the first team when they are holding the ball and make them land on the field. A team can also get points by kicking the ball through the sticks on each end of the field.
Permalink
You see, my boy, you'll understand this better when you are a man. Or a woman, if that's your thing. Or none of them, if that is. But I'll give it a shot still, for it is 4am here in my part of the world, and well, fuck, I don't really have much else to do.
You see, inside everything, there are tiny bits of tiny parts that go around other tiny bits, and don't quite easily stop or change their spots! (They have quite of a heart!) Now, sometimes, if people in white clothes really really try hard, they can make two (or more) bits of tiny parts that go around other tiny bits. It's quite something, and it's quite beautiful, except the entire thing is really not safe, and can be quite hurt-full, and it has in the past. So listen with care, my boy, you'll understand this better when you're older, but play not with things you don't completely understand, and we'll all live for a hundred years more!
Permalink
Three-sided-figures make the world break. Numbers are a lie your teachers use to control you. Stare into the eyes of the cold-blooded animal with the crazy eyes and be eaten by the dark; be eaten by fear; be eaten by sleep, young one. The well falls deeper down than anyone imagined. Sleep.
Permalink
I make music using a very tall music-making thing with four long things that go around really fast when you make them go with your fingers or with a long stick with hair. When I am not making music with the music-making thing, I am helping other smaller people to make music with their music-making things. Only sometimes they are larger but not as good at using their music-making things.I am often making music by people who are dead, but who made pretty music when they were not dead.
Permalink
I want to go to the kitchen and make coffee. I plan on warming the water on high. I will break coffee in a breaking thing. The coffee will be put in a glass and the water will be put on the coffee. The broken coffee will wait with the water for some time. Five minutes of waiting, and then press the broken coffee and it will make all the water black. I place the black coffee water into another glass from which I can drink. Fuck yes!
Permalink
A computer is a box that can work out a lot of things very fast. In the box there are many bits which work together to work the things out. The bit which works most hard is in the middle, it does all the working out that the other bits tell it to do. There is a bit next to this which can remember things while they are not being worked out or while they are waiting to be worked out. When the working out is done, the remembered things can be saved to a turning fast hard round thing so the working out is not lost then the power is turned off. A person can sit in front of the computer and look at it using a TV. The computer shows what it is doing on the TV so the person knows if the working out is going well. At the end the answer of the working out is shown on the TV and the person is happy.
Permalink
You have probably never killed a half-cat. Well, someone did and he is more talked about than you will ever be.
Permalink
The stuff that makes up our bodies are inside every cell of the said body. They are kept in the form of writing, and then used to make stuff that is used by the body to work. The food we eat has the matter that is used to make the stuff that our body needs to work. That is why we need to eat every day, since our bodies use up a lot of the stuff.
Permalink
People on the left think everyone's money should be shared around and spent on schools, hospitals and police for the good of all. They want the world to be more just. People on the right think they should keep all the money they make to themselves to spend on crack, women and fast cars. They think it is normal for the best people (people like them) to have all the money and power while everyone else can go fuck themselves.
Permalink
A group is a set together with a way of putting any two guys in it side by side to become another guy in the set such that these are true:
1. You can put any three guys together side by side and it shouldn't matter which two guys out of the three you take first (this means the left two, or the right two, since you can only take two at a time). You should still get the same guy after putting all three together.
2. There's a guy in the set, call him "nothing", such that this nothing put together with something just gives you that something back; and
3. Every guy in the set, has a "friend" such that putting him together with his friend gives you the "nothing" guy in number two.
Permalink
If you are reading this it is because you like to read things that are for people who can't read stuff good.
Permalink
Idea of how stuff all works. Really small stuff and really big stuff don't work the same. Small stuff acts one way, while big stuff sometimes acts a completely different way. So how do we think of all the stuff at the same time? Easy! We think of them being in different places, at the same time. So you have a little stuff place and a big stuff place. The little stuff and the big stuff is made of the same stuff, which acts the same even in different stuff. So then, instead of thinking about the big stuff and the little stuff, we think about this new stuff, that isn't big or little, and everything makes sense.
Permalink
cats use their tongues to drink water by pulling a stick of water up into their mouths fuck yeah
Permalink
To add two different points on a figure formed by drawing points for which the first number of the point times the first number of the point times the first number of the point added to some number times the first number of the point added to some other number is the same as the second number of the point times the second number of the point, you should first make a line that goes through the two points. This line will pass through a third point on the figure you have just drawn. This point, of course has a first number and the second number. The first number of the answer is the first number of the point you just got. To get the second number of the answer, you take the number which when you add to the second number will give you nothing. And so, you already have your answer. This does not always work. If the points you add are on top of each other, the line that goes through them will be a standing line. In this case, the answer will be some point you make up to complete the group of points. Also, if you want to add a point to that self of that point, then you just get the line which will pass to exactly one other point in the figure. Then change the second number of that point to the number which when you add to the second number will give you nothing.
Permalink
Old "letter six add ten" is a number that is a round thing's outside line over its line across. The number is close to 3.14159. It has been written using the old "letter six add ten" since the middle of the 1800 year. Old "letter six add ten" is not a normal number, which means that it not able to be made exactly as one number over another (such as 22/7 or other numbers over numbers that are used a lot to get close to old "letter six add ten"); so, its number with points shown type never ends and never repeats. And, old "letter six add ten" is a not normal number  a number that is not able to times by it to make any not none numbers add set having normal times numbers. The not normal type of old "letter six add ten" shows that there is no way to answer the very old problem of make four-sided the round thing with a pointed letter twenty-two and straight-edge. The numbers in the number with points shown type of old "letter six add ten" appear to be not the same, although no fact showing thing of this supposed not the same has yet been found.
Permalink
A thing where people share pictures of cats and other animals for not true points.
Permalink
When a man loves a woman very, very much, they have a child together. Over time, their children have children. Eventually, they run out of food, water, and room for all of these people. To stop this from happening, we have to take what we have and find a way to use it again. If we don't, we could end all life when we run out of food, water, and room.
Permalink
This drawing explains the many bits and pieces of a space car using only the ten hundred most normal of our type of words. The thing given by that one guy up top (Up Goer Five - also the name of the one drawing I gave) will check whatever you write and let you know if any word is not in the ten hundred most normal words used.
Permalink
When people want computer games to be fun, they ask me. I take the pretty pictures that the people draw and make them move and be fun. Sometimes my work lets you kill bad guys. Other times I can show you how to drive really fast cars. Some businesses make jobs by having everyone buy the game without buying it all at once. I think it would be easier to make a different game. Other people take games without paying. When they do that I do not make money.
Permalink
"A bad dream on type-of-tree street" is movie about a bad guy who tries to kill you while you sleep. If you die in the dream you die in real life. He has fingers that can cut you open and was burned to death because he touched children and killed them, too.
Permalink
Writing a story isn't that hard. Start with an idea, any idea you can think of, from school, from life, from the world. Anything. Use that idea, focus it to form something bigger, and grow an entire world from it. Once you have this world, you're ready. Now write. Easy, no? However, building a story is not only focused around an idea. True, without ideas, you can't make a story have meaning. However, you also need a kind of love for the idea behind your story. With this, you put parts of yourself into the piece too, making it mean something not only to you, but to others as well. The love you put into it comes through, and people notice that. Let yourself come out in your writing and show the world who you are. Your pieces are all parts of yourself. Don't lose yourself within the words; instead, find yourself in them.
Permalink
You can make computers do things by writing words in right way. Follow right way and they will do what you want. Many computer people also like to have writing look nice and read easily, even though good looking writing does not matter to the computer as long as the words are right. There are so many different things you can do with this writing. It's not possible to imagine all of the things you can do. You can make games, or cool pictures. You can even make your computer talk to other computers over long lines reaching to far away places, even to other parts of the world! I think that's pretty cool.
Permalink
Computers have their own way of saying things. What I do is figure out how to change the way people say things into a way of saying things that computers can understand.
Permalink
If you know the two shortest sides of a three sided figure, where two of the sides are right to each other, and you want to know the longest one, then what you have to do is times the first side by the first side and the second side by the second side and then add the two answers to these together and then find the number that when you times it by its self makes the number that you got as the answer to that and that is how big the third side is.
Permalink
Blood drinking types are all killed by a girl in her not very young school people years, helped by a group of also not very young school people and a lots of book owner.
Permalink
I really like the study of computers. It always makes sense to me. Computers read whether each thing in a line is on or off. If the thing in the line is on, then the computer does one thing. If the thing in the line is off, then the computer does something else. In this way the computer can decide what to do when you give them a line of things that are either on or off.
Permalink
The nice and sweet boy watched as his Mom was thrown from the car. A large car, it was hard to tell what type, had hit them from behind and she was thrown hard out of the car.
The nice and sweet boy felt his lips shake, outside his control. His legs moved up and down faster and faster. He wanted to ask his Mom if she was alright, but he was afraid she wouldn't answer. So he remained silent.
When they came for him (hours later), he still would not talk. In fact, he did not say another word for ten years. And then, one morning, he spoke five words.
This is the story of what happened next.
Permalink
There is a type of study that tries to figure out what problems computers can do. It doesn't mean 'do' in the sense of what it has time to do, it means 'do' if you gave it enough time to do what it has to, then you would get an answer. This gets hard because you have to figure out what ' enough time ' means, which is a problem its self that computers can't do. The nice thing is that there is an idea that if you can think of how to get an answer in your head, you can get a computer to do it for you. A guy thought of this, and decided that a good way to figure out what computers could do was to imagine a little car thing that moved back and forwards on a really long white paper. This car can read what is written on the paper at that place, and decide what to do because of it. This makes what it can do easier to figure out.
Permalink
This thing is totally world wide and stuff, it let's you send many things from one place to another. Guess what it is that I might be talking about. You are using it right now.
Permalink
Explaining the game:
A team of five goes against another team of five on a field with three ways to the other teams home. Everyone starts in their home.
Everyone controls a different guy, each with very different things that they are good at. There are over one hundred of these guys you need to learn and understand to be good at the game.
The computer controls smaller guys that you can kill for money. When the game starts, these computer controlled guys will kill each other, trying to push into the other teams home. You can also get money by killing the guys that the other team controls. This money is spent in shops to make your guy better than the other teams guys. This means the more money you get, the easier it will be to beat the other team.
You lose if the other team kills your big home building that you started at.
Permalink
For my job, I find out what most other people are looking for when they have questions. Then, I have to make sure we (at my office) give them the very best answer for their questions. After that, it is time to talk to the computers and make sure that they understand that our answers are the best answers for those same questions. If we do this right, it makes the computers give my work more people's attention. Then that gives my office more money.
Permalink
To make a computer do things we have to tell it what it should do. People like me write papers but on the computer that it can understand. There are many different ways to tell the computer what it should do today. All computers have a tv part that shows things. First we are able to tell the computer it should show words and numbers on the tv part. We are also able to tell the computer to do things with numbers like adding. If we want, the computer can be told to only do things if other things happen first. It can also do things over and over until we tell it to stop. Later on, once you learn a lot, you can even make the computer do so many things at once that it will seem like it can do anything! You can make things to hit on and off. You could even build a not real computer inside the real one!
Permalink
HINTS  TOP  LATEST  RANDOM
INSPIRED BY XKCD. (THE IMAGE IS FROM #386.)
CREATED BY THEO SANDERSON. HOW DOES IT WORK?